So far, we had a "UNI" directional mapping between the "Instructor" and "InstructorDetail". What that means is we can get the "InstructorDetail" from the "Instructor". But, we cannot get the "Instructor" data from the "InstructorDetail".

What if we have a use case where we would like to load the "InstructorDetail" and we would also want to get the associated "Instructor".

So basically, we want a "BI" directional mapping now where we can not only get the "InstructorDetail" from the "Instructor", but we can also get the "Instructor" from the "InstructorDetail".

A good thing about Bi-directional mapping is that there is no change needed in the database schema. The only change required is in our Java code.

# DEVELOPMENT STEPS

Since we want to get the "Instructor" data from an "InstructorDetail", it means we have to add a new field in "InstructorDetail" entity which will reference the "Instructor", just how we added a field in "Instructor" entity class to reference the "InstructorDetail".

    public class InstructorDetail {

        @Id
        @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
        @Column(name = "id")
        private int id;

        @Column(name = "youtube_channel")
        private String youtubeChannel;

        @Column(name = "hobby")
        private String hobby;

        @OneToOne(mappedBy = "instructorDetail")
        private Instructor instructor;

    // GETTERS AND SETTERS

    }

Note that we are defining a new field like this - 

    @OneToOne(mappedBy = "instructorDetail")
    private Instructor instructor;

So, what is this "mappedBy" attribute? Well, this refers to the property named "instructorDetail" present in the "Instructor" entity class.

The "mappedBy" attribute is used to specify the owner of the relationship.

In other words, we can say that "mappedBy" indicates that the entity in this side (InstructorDetail in this case) is the inverse of the relationship and the owner resides in the "other" entity (Instructor in this case).

In our case, the "mappedBy" attribute tells Hibernate - 

    - Look at the "instructorDetail" property in the "Instructor" class
    - Use information from the "Instructor" class and its @JoinColumn attribute to help find the associated "Instructor".

Another thing to note is that we also have to set the cascade type if we want to cascade all operations to the associated table. So, if we delete some data from "InstructorDetail" then it will also delete the related "Instructor".

    @OneToOne(mappedBy = "instructorDetail", cascade = CascadeType.ALL)
    private Instructor instructor;

Next up, we can add a new method in the DAO Interface to find the instructor detail by the id - 

    public interface AppDAO {
        void save (Instructor instructor);
        Instructor findInstructorById(int id);
        InstructorDetail findInstructorDetailById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorById(int id);
    }

And then, we simply implement it in the DAOImpl class - 

    @Override
    public InstructorDetail findInstructorDetailById(int id) {
        return entityManager.find(InstructorDetail.class, id);
    }

And now, if we run this method in our main app and pass the id of the "InstructorDetail" row, check the SQL query in the terminal.

    select id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.last_name,id1_0.youtube_channel from instructor_detail id1_0
    left join instructor i1_0 
    on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where id1_0.id=?

So, we can see that it will left join the "instructor" table based on the "id" and "instructor_detail_id" fields. And then it will return the "Instructor Detail" data.

    System.out.println("Quering the Instructor Detail with id = 2");
	InstructorDetail instructorDetail = appDAO.findInstructorDetailById(2);
	System.out.println("Instructor Detail -> " + instructorDetail);

Now, even though in the console we can only see this - 

    Instructor Detail -> InstructorDetail{id=2, youtubeChannel='https://www.youtube.com/xyz', hobby='Code!!'}

We can actually get the "instructor" from this object by simply using the "getter" -

	System.out.println("Associdated Instructor -> " + instructorDetail.getInstructor());

And this will print - 

    Associdated Instructor -> Instructor{id=2, firstName='John', lastName='Doe', email='john@gmail.com', instructorDetail=InstructorDetail{id=2, youtubeChannel='https://www.youtube.com/xyz', hobby='Code!!'}}

And now, we have a Bi-directional mapping between the two entities.
