Let's add a new method to delete the Instructor Detail from the table.

Here is the DAO Interface - 

    public interface AppDAO {
        void save (Instructor instructor);
        Instructor findInstructorById(int id);
        InstructorDetail findInstructorDetailById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorDetailById(int id);
    }

And here is the implementation - 

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void deleteInstructorDetailById(int id) {
        entityManager.remove(entityManager.find(InstructorDetail.class, id));
    }

So, when we run this method in our main class, this is the first SQL query to run - 

    select id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.last_name,id1_0.youtube_channel from instructor_detail id1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where id1_0.id=?

This runs because we first have to fetch the "Instructor Detail" from the table and this also means it will fetch the associated "Instructor".

The next SQL query is - 

    delete from instructor where id=?

So note that it will first delete the associdated "Instructor" from "instructor" table.

And then, it runs - 

    delete from instructor_detail where id=?

So, finally, it deletes the row from "instructor_detail" table.

# ONLY DELETE INSTRUCTOR DETAIL

Well, so far, since we are using "CASCADETYPE" as "ALL", deleting the "Instructor Detail" will also delete the associdated "Instructor". What if we do not want that? What if we do not want to cascade the delete operation?

We need to update the CASCADE TYPE in our "Instructor Detail" class.

        @OneToOne(mappedBy = "instructorDetail", cascade = {CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.REFRESH})
        private Instructor instructor;

So, this time, we selected all the cascade types except for "REMOVE".

One "VERY IMPORTANT" thing is to break the bi-directional link. And we can do that by setting the "Instructor Detail" as null for the "Instructor" that is associdated with this "Instructor Detail" that we have to delete.

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void deleteInstructorDetailById(int id) {
        InstructorDetail instructorDetail = entityManager.find(InstructorDetail.class, id);

        // Break the bi-directional link
        instructorDetail.getInstructor().setInstructorDetail(null);

        entityManager.remove(instructorDetail);
    }

And now, let's see what happens when we delete the Instructor Detail.

You will see that the first SQL query that runs in the terminal is- 

    select id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.last_name,id1_0.youtube_channel from instructor_detail id1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where id1_0.id=?

So, this basically gets the Instructor Detail from the database and performs a LEFT JOIN on the "instructor" table to also get the associated instructor.

    update instructor set email=?,first_name=?,instructor_detail_id=?,last_name=? where id=?

Next, it applies an "UPDATE" operation on the "instructor" table and sets the "instructor_detail_id" to "null". This will break the relationship between these two tables which means now, we can safely delete the row from "instructor_detail" table.

And hence, the last SQL query to run is - 

    delete from instructor_detail where id=?

So now, we see that even though the row from "instructor_detail" is removed, the row from "instructor" still remains. That's because we are not cascading the DELETE operation.

# WHY DO WE HAVE TO MANUALLY SET THE REFERENCE VALUE AS NULL?

We already told Hibernate to not CASCADE the DELETE operation right? Then why do we have to still manually set the reference value as null? Isn't it tedious?

It is the draw back and strength of referential integrity that these references keep you from removing the referenced data. 

While you may think of having to handle each reference yourself as tedious, it really does protect your application from errors - you must think of what you want to happen to each and every reference you have in your graph when one of the nodes disappears and ensure it is appropriately handled. 

This step is necessary because while removing "CascadeType.ALL" removes the automatic cascading of all operations, including delete, it doesn't necessarily break the association between entities in memory. Even without CascadeType.ALL, Hibernate might still retain references to associated entities.





