Let's now start with the second type of mapping that we can have - One-to-Many mapping.

For this, we can take an example of an "Instructor" and "Course". An "Instructor" can have multiple "Courses" and since we are starting with a "Bi-Directional" mapping first, it means not only we can get the details of a "Course" from the "Instructor", but we can also get the details of an "Instructor" from a "Course".

We can also have "Many-to-One" mapping which we can understand by saying that "Many" courses can have "One" instructor" So, it is simply the inverse or opposite of One-to-Many.

Let's now take a real-world project requirement. If we delete an "Instructor", do we want to delete its respective "Course" details as well? Ofcourse not. Similarly, if we delete a "Course", do we we want to delete the associated "Instructor" as well? Ofcourse not!

It means, in this case, we will "NOT" cascade the DELETE operations.

# STEP 1 - DEFINE DATABASE TABLES

The very first step is obviously to create the necessary tables in the database. 

Under the scripts folder, you will find the "hb-03-one-to-many" folder. Run the "create-db.sql" script in that folder in the MySQL Workbench.

This script will create all the tables. The new table that this script creates is the "course" table.


    CREATE TABLE `course` (
    `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `title` varchar(128) DEFAULT NULL,
    `instructor_id` int DEFAULT NULL,
    
    PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
    
    UNIQUE KEY `TITLE_UNIQUE` (`title`),
    
    KEY `FK_INSTRUCTOR_idx` (`instructor_id`),
    
    CONSTRAINT `FK_INSTRUCTOR` 
    FOREIGN KEY (`instructor_id`) 
    REFERENCES `instructor` (`id`) 
    
    ON DELETE NO ACTION ON UPDATE NO ACTION
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=10 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

So, as we can see, it has a foreign key column named "instructor_id" that references the column named "id" in "instructor" table.

Note that we have this line -

    UNIQUE KEY `TITLE_UNIQUE` (`title`),

This is just to make sure the column "title" has unique values so that no two courses have the same name.

# STEP 2 - CREATE A COURSE ENTITY CLASS

Now that we are done with the Database, we now come back to the Spring Boot code. We need to define a new "Entity" class named "Course" which is a mapping of the "Course "table.

    @Entity
    @Table(name = "course")
    public class Course {

        @Id
        @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
        @Column(name = "id")
        private int id;

        @Column(name = "title")
        private String title;

        @ManyToOne(cascade = {CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.REFRESH})
        @JoinColumn(name = "instructor_id")
        private Instructor instructor;

        // GETTERS, SETTERS AND CONSTRUCTORS
    }

So, we have used the "@ManyToOne" annotation here because we know that "Many" courses can have "one" instructor. And note that since our requirement said we do not want to CASCADE delete operations, we do not pass "DELETE" in the array for "cascade" attribute.

We use the "@JoinColumn" to tell Hibernate which column of "course" table references the primary key of "instructor" table. In our case, it is the "instructor_id" column.

# STEP 3 - ANNOTATING THE INSTRUCTOR ENTITY CLASS

Note that since we are currently having a "Bi-Directional" mapping, we also need to add a new class variable in "Instructor" class of type "Course". This is similar to what we did in case of "One-To-One" bi-directional mapping.

All we have to add in this "Instructor" class is this - 

    @OneToMany(mappedBy = "instructor", cascade = {CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    private List<Course> courses;

Note that here, the field is of type "List". So, it is a list of courses since we know that one instructor can have more than one courses associated with him and that's why, we would like to store them in a list. And on this class we use "@OneToMany" annotation because "One" instructor can be associated to "Many" courses. We also specify the cascade types and we exclude the "DELETE" cascade type since we do not want to delete the associated course if the Instructor is deleted.

Finally, the "mappedBy" property simply specifies the name of the field in "Course" class. Because this "instructor" field in "Course" class is the one that we use to have a relationship between the two entities.

Finally, make sure to add getters and setters since we added a new field in the "Instructor" entity class.

# STEP 4 - ADD CONVENIENCE METHOD FOR BI-DIRECTIONAL RELATIONSHIP

Let's also add one helper method in this "Instructor" class that we can use to add a course to this "Instructor". This is not something that is required by Hibernate, but it is just for our own convenience.

    public void add (Course course) {
        if (null == courses) {
            courses = new ArrayList<>();
        }
        
        courses.add(course);
        course.setInstructor(this);
    }

Note that all we do is that we initialize the "courses" field in this "Instructor" class to an empty list in case this field is null. And then we push the new course in this field.

And we also set up a bi-directional mapping by setting the instructor of the course.

What if we do not add this method?

If you did not add this function, then you would have to essentially replicate this code each time you want to add a course to an instructor.

# STEP 5 - UPDATE APPLICATION PROPERTIES

Next, make sure you update the application.properties file because now we have a new database named "hb-03-one-to-many".

    spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/hb-03-one-to-many
    spring.datasource.username=test
    spring.datasource.password=test

# STEP 6 - TEST THE CODE IN THE MAIN FILE

And finally, it is time for the moment of truth.

Let's add a new method in our "main" file that will create a new instructor with some courses and add that instructor to the database.

    private void createInstructorWithCourses(AppDAO appDAO) {

		// Create a new "Instructor" object
		Instructor instructor = new Instructor("Susan", "Public", "susan@gmail.com");

		// Create a new "InstructorDetail" object
		InstructorDetail instructorDetail = new InstructorDetail("http://www.youtube.com/abc", "Guitar");

		// Set the "InstructorDetail"
		instructor.setInstructorDetail(instructorDetail);

		// Create some Courses
		Course course1 = new Course("Air Guitar - The Ultimate Guide");
		Course course2 = new Course("The Pinball Masterclass");

		// Add the courses to the Instructor
		instructor.add(course1);
		instructor.add(course2);

		// Save the instructor
		System.out.println("Saving the Instructor: " + instructor);
		System.out.println("The courses are: "+ instructor.getCourses());
		appDAO.save(instructor);
		System.out.println("Done!");
	}

Note that here, to add a course, we are not using "setCourse" setter but instead we are using the "add" method that we defined because this method will also to the bi-directional mapping which we otherwise have to manually rewrite for each new course that we have to add.

And now, once you call this method, this is what the console will print.

The very first SQL query that runs is -

    insert into instructor_detail (hobby,youtube_channel) values (?,?)

So, it first creates a new row in the "insstructor_detail" table.

Then, it runs this SQL query - 

    insert into instructor (email,first_name,instructor_detail_id,last_name) values (?,?,?,?)

So now, it will insert a new row in the "instructor" table and makes sure that the "instructor_detail_id" is the one that it got after adding a new "instructor_detail".

Next, it runs this query - 

    insert into course (instructor_id,title) values (?,?)

So, it now adds a new row in the "course" table with the associated "instructor_id" value which references the "id" of the new row added in "instructor" table.

And finally, another same query runs with different parameters - 
    
    insert into course (instructor_id,title) values (?,?)

Since we added two courses, it will run two queries for insertion.

And so, if we now see the tables in our MySQL Workbench, we see that the "course" table has two new entries and they both point to the same instructor id. This is exactly what we wanted.

One thing to note is that in the "course" table, the "id" field starts at "10". Why is that so? Well, if you look at the database script, you will see that this SQL script has this in the "CREATE TABLE" query for "course" table - 

    AUTO_INCREMENT=10

So, here we have specified that the "id" field should be auto-incremented, starting with "10".

So, it is not some error. It is just something we can decide if we want to.








