Note that in the beginning of this section, we had discussed the "Fetch" types where we have two options - "EAGER" and "LAZY".

This is a very useful feature where we can choose whether we want to fetch everything or just the thing that we need at the moment.

The default FETCH type is "EAGER" (for @OneToOne) and it will retrieve everything.

Let's understand that by an example.

We have an "Instructor" who has many courses associated with him. Now, when we fetch a row from the "instructor" table, by default, it will also fetch all the courses because we have a field in the "Instructor" entity class for the list of courses. But, we may only need the "Instructor" detail for now, not the courses list. So, we are doing unnecessary fetching here.

In this case, we can use "LAZY" fetching so that only the instructor details are loaded. When we need the list of courses, we simply have to call the "getter" for the list of courses and then a new SQL query will run to fetch the list of courses.

So, the bottom line is that - 

    LAZY LOADING will load the main entity first and then load the dependent entities on demand.

    EAGER LOADING will load not only the main entity but also the dependent entities alongside it.

So, always prefer using "LAZY" loading wherever you can.

# FETCH TYPE

To specify a fetch type, we can add the "fetch" attribute in the mapping annotation inside an Entity class. For example, in the "Instructor" class, we can say - 

    @OneToMany(fetch = FetchType.LAZY, mappedBy = "instructor", cascade = {CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    private List<Course> courses;

So, we added "FetchType.LAZY" as the value of "fetch" and this means that when we load an "instructor" data from the database, it will not fetch the list of courses alongside it.

There is one important thing to note.

    "EAGER" is the default fetch type for @OneToOne & @ManyToOne
    "LAZY" is the default fetch type for @OneToMany & @ManyToMany

It means, in the above code, there is no effect becaues the default is "LAZY" for @OneToMany and that's what we are setting as well.

When we specify a "FETCH" type, it will override the default fetch type.

# MORE ON LAZY LOAD

The data is only loaded on demand when we use "LAZY" loading but there is one important thing to note. We need an open Hibernate session in this case.
    

If the session is closed and you attempt to retrieve the lazy data then Hibernate will throw an exception. So, this is one issue you will face when working with Lazy Loading.

# LET'S WRITE SOME CODE

So, let's write some code and see all this in action. 

In our main class, let's have a method to find an instructor with courses.

    private void findInstructorWithCourses(AppDAO appDAO) {

		int id = 1;

		System.out.println("Finding instructor with id: "+ id);
		Instructor instructor = appDAO.findInstructorById(id);
		System.out.println("Instructor: " + instructor);
		System.out.println("The associated courses: " + instructor.getCourses());
		System.out.println("DONE!");
	}

Now, let's see what happens when we call it. When we run our app, it throw an exception in the terminal - 

    org.hibernate.LazyInitializationException: failed to lazily initialize a collection of role: com.mappings.cruddemo.entity.Instructor.courses: could not initialize proxy - no Session

Recall that inside "Instructor" entity class, we are using @OneToMany annotation for the list of courses and as we understood above, the default FETCH type for @OneToMany is "LAZY". And we also understood that for lazy loading, we need an active Hibernate session. If the session closes, it will throw an exception like above.

This means the session was closed before we accessed the courses. Hence this exception.

How to fix it?

The easiest solution is to change the fetch type to "EAGER" - 

    @OneToMany(fetch = FetchType.EAGER, mappedBy = "instructor", cascade = {CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    private List<Course> courses;

And this time, if we run the app, we see this SQL statement - 

    select i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title from instructor i1_0 left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id left join course c1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id where i1_0.id=?

So, it will perform a LEFT JOIN on the "course" table to also get the associated courses. And this happened because we are using "EAGER" fetching so it is fetching all the data at once - Instructor, as well as the course data.

We may not want this solution. Because what if we only want to fetch the "courses" as needed? We will still require "LAZY" loading in this case.

So, the other way is to have a separate code to fetch the courses for the instructor.

We will add this new method in our DAO Interface.

    public interface AppDAO {
        void save (Instructor instructor);
        Instructor findInstructorById(int id);
        InstructorDetail findInstructorDetailById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorDetailById(int id);
        List<Course> findCoursesByInstructorId(int id); <- THIS ONE
    }

And here is the implementation - 

    @Override
    public List<Course> findCoursesByInstructorId(int id) {
        TypedQuery<Course> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Course WHERE instructor.id = :id", Course.class);

        query.setParameter("id", id);
        
        return query.getResultList();
    }

And we can now change the main class code to this - 

    private void findInstructorWithCourses(AppDAO appDAO) {

		int id = 1;

		System.out.println("Finding instructor with id: "+ id);
		Instructor instructor = appDAO.findInstructorById(id);
		System.out.println("Instructor: " + instructor);
		System.out.println("The associated courses: " + appDAO.findCoursesByInstructorId(instructor.getId()));
		System.out.println("DONE!");
	}

So now, we are using this new method to fetch the courses based on the Instructor id.

And now, our code runs fine.

We see that the very first SQL query is - 

    select i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where i1_0.id=?

Note that this time, we do not have a LEFT JOIN for the "course" table because we are using "LAZY" fetching so we do not need that data right now. We do have a "LEFT JOIN" on the "instructor_detail" table because we are not overriding the fetch type for that.

    select c1_0.id,c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.title from course c1_0 where c1_0.instructor_id=?

And next, we have an SQL query that runs to get the courses from the database that have the specific instructor ID associated with them. And this SQL query runs only because we explicitly tell Spring Boot that we need a list of courses by calling the method "findInstructorWithCourses".

