In the previous section, we saw how we can find courses for an instructor when we have fetch type as "LAZY".

The solution was fine but it required an extra query.

What if we had some option such that it will fetch teh instructor and the courses in a single query and still keep the "LAZY" option available?

Well, for that, we can add a new method in the DAOImpl to fetch the instructor and also the associated courses. And in this new method, when we write our query, we will use something called "JOIN FETCH".

    @Override
    public Instructor findInstructorByIdJoinFetch(int id) {
        TypedQuery<Instructor> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Instructor i JOIN FETCH i.courses WHERE i.id = :data", Instructor.class);

        query.setParameter("data", id);

        return query.getSingleResult();
    }

So, what is this "JOIN FETCH"?

The "JOIN FETCH" is similar to "EAGER" loading. So now, even with LAZY loading, the code will still retrieve the "Instructor" as well as the "Courses".

JOIN FETCH is a great way to address the "LazyInitializationException" when using Hibernate as you can initialize entity associations using the FetchType.LAZY fetching strategy along with the main entity you are fetching.

Now, what is the use of this?

Well, imagine a scenario where we just need the "Instructor" details. In that case, we simply need to use the appDAO.findInstructorByid() method. And since we are using LAZY loading, it will not fetch the courses.

Now imagine that we also need the courses. And in that case, we can use this new method that we created for that. So, even with "LAZY" fetching, we can still fetch both the "Instructor" and the "Courses" using "JOIN FETCH". So, we get the best of both worlds.

So now, we can use this new method in our main file if we want to fetch an instructor with the courses - 

    private void findInstructorWithCoursesJoinFetch(AppDAO appDAO) {

		int id = 1;

		System.out.println("Finding instructor with id: "+ id);
		Instructor instructor = appDAO.findInstructorByIdJoinFetch(id);
		System.out.println("Instructor: " + instructor);
		System.out.println("The associated courses: " + instructor.getCourses());
		System.out.println("DONE!");
	}

Note that now, we have a single query and it gives us both the instructor and the courses. We do not have to call a separate method for the courses like we had to do before. And all this happens with fetch type still being "LAZY".

# MINIMIZING THE QUERIES

If you note, we are stil having two queries in the terminal. One is this - 
    
    select i1_0.id,c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.instructor_detail_id,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 join course c1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id where i1_0.id=?

So, this query fetches the "Instructor" and the "Course" details.

But, we also have another query - 

    select id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.last_name,id1_0.youtube_channel from instructor_detail id1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where id1_0.id=?

And this one actually fetches the "Instructor Detail". We can actually minimize this so that only one query runs for all the three tables. And we can do that by adding the "Instructor Detail" into the JOIN FETCH as well.

    TypedQuery<Instructor> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Instructor i JOIN FETCH i.instructorDetail JOIN FETCH i.courses WHERE i.id = :data", Instructor.class);

And now if we run the app, only one SQL query runs - 

    select i1_0.id,c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id join course c1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id where i1_0.id=?

And this single SQL query will fetch the data from all three tables because we are using JOIN FETCH.

# JOIN VS JOIN FETCH

Well, we could've also used "JOIN" keyword right? What's the advantage that "JOIN FETCH" gives us?

See, if we write - 

     entityManager.createQuery("FROM Instructor i JOIN i.courses WHERE i.id = :data", Instructor.class);

This will only give us the columns from the "instructor" table, not from the "courses" table.

The SQL query generated behind the scenes will be like this - 

   select i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.instructor_detail_id,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 join course c1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id where i1_0.id=?

So, note that this query does not fetch any column from the "course" table.

That's why, if you run the app after using "JOIN" instead of "JOIN NFETCH", the app will again fail with - 

    org.hibernate.LazyInitializationException: failed to lazily initialize a collection of role: com.mappings.cruddemo.entity.Instructor.courses: could not initialize proxy - no Session

That's because this query does not fetch the courses along with the instructor since we are using "JOIN" keyword. 

But, if we write "JOIN FETCH" it will also fetch the columns from the "course" table along with the columns from the "instructor" table.

    select i1_0.id,c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,i1_0.instructor_detail_id,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 join course c1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id where i1_0.id=?

This time, note that we are also fetching the course id and title in the "SELECT" clause.

And that's why using "JOIN FETCH" does not give us the same exception.
