Let's do some basic CRUD Operations now on our Entities. 


# UPDATING THE INSTRUCTOR

Let's try to update an instructor. Ofcourse we want to first find an instructor before we update it so we have to find the instructor by ID.

And once we have the instructor, we can change the data by calling the setter methods and then finally we can use the DAO to update the instructor in the database.

So, we add a new method to our DAO Interface - 

    public interface AppDAO {
        void save (Instructor instructor);
        Instructor findInstructorById(int id);
        InstructorDetail findInstructorDetailById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorDetailById(int id);
        List<Course> findCoursesByInstructorId(int id);
        Instructor findInstructorByIdJoinFetch(int id);
        void update(Instructor instructor); <- THIS ONE
    }

And we implement it in the DAOImpl class - 

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void update(Instructor instructor) {
        entityManager.merge(instructor);
    }

As we already know, "merge" will take an Entity and update it if it already exists. 

So when we call this method to update an instructor, this will be the first SQL query - 

    select i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where i1_0.id=?

So, it will first fetch the details of the instructor. Note that we are not getting the "Course" data here because by default, we use "LAZY" loading in @OneToMany. And here, we do not even need the courses data.

Next query is this - 

    select i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title from instructor i1_0 left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id left join course c1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id where i1_0.id=?

You might think, why are we fetching all the data from Course if we are using LAZY loading? Well, remember that "LAZY" ladng is used to skip the fetching of courses from database when you "READ" the data. In this case, we are "UPDATING" the data. And so, when it come to updating, all tables must be updated properly and that's why Hibernate will check all the tables that are connected to the "Instructor" table.

LAZY fetch is used to prevent fetching courses when you are fetching instructor from the database.

LAZY fetch does not mean that courses will not show in the query when we are performing an update.

Those are two completely different operations.

The final SQL query is - 

    update instructor set email=?,first_name=?,instructor_detail_id=?,last_name=? where id=?

# UPDATING THE COURSE

Now, let's try to do something similar with the 'Course' entity.

Again, we will add a new method to our DAO Interface to update a course.

    public interface AppDAO {
        void save (Instructor instructor);
        Instructor findInstructorById(int id);
        InstructorDetail findInstructorDetailById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorById(int id);
        void deleteInstructorDetailById(int id);
        List<Course> findCoursesByInstructorId(int id);
        Instructor findInstructorByIdJoinFetch(int id);
        void update(Instructor instructor);
        void update(Course course); <- THIS ONE
    }

Do not worry about two methods with same names. In Java, we have a concept of Method Overloading where we can have more than one methods with same name but the differece is that they can have different parameter types. For example in above case, one method expects a parameter of type "Instructor" whereas the other expects a parameter of type "Course". Hence, both are considered different by Java.

The implementation of this method is same as the other one - 

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void update(Course course) {
        entityManager.merge(course);
    }

Finally, we can use this method in our main file. Before that, add a new method to the DAO to find a course by id since we do not have any such method yet. It is the same as finding an instructor by id.

So, when we use the update() method to update the course, the first SQL query is - 

    select c1_0.id,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.title from course c1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where c1_0.id=?

This SQL query runs because we called the "findCourseById" method. So, here we see that it will fetch all the details from all three tables because remember that inside "Course" entity, we are using @ManyToOne annotation on "Instructor". And by default, @ManyToOne uses "EAGER" fetching.

The next SQL query runs before the UPDATE query runs, just like in case of updating an Instructor -

    select c1_0.id,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.title from course c1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where c1_0.id=?

Next, we fetch the specific course by the instructor id -

    select c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title from course c1_0 where c1_0.instructor_id=?

And finally, we update the course - 

    update course set instructor_id=?,title=? where id=?

