Let's also try to delete the entities.

# DELETE AN INSTRUCTOR

Just like in case of Updating an Instructor, we will first find an Instructor by its id.

Then, remember that this is a "BI-DIRECTIONAL" mapping so we have to break the associdation of all the instructor's courses.

And finally, we can delete the instructor.

So first, add a new DAO Method to delete an instructor.

We already have a "deleteInstructorById" method but it is the same one we copied from One to One uni-directional section and that's why it looks like this - 

    public void deleteInstructorById(int id) {
        entityManager.remove(entityManager.find(Instructor.class, id));
    }

If we directly use this method, what do you think will happen? 

We will get an exception - 

    could not execute statement [Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails (`hb-03-one-to-many`.`course`, CONSTRAINT `FK_INSTRUCTOR` FOREIGN KEY (`instructor_id`) REFERENCES `instructor` (`id`))] [delete from instructor where id=?]; SQL [delete from instructor where id=?]; constraint [null]

And this makes sense because we have not broken the association between this Instructor and the courses that use this Instructor's id in their table. That's why, we have to tweak this method since we are using BI-DIRECTIONAL mapping here.


    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void deleteInstructorById(int id) {
        
        // Find the instructor by id
        Instructor instructor = entityManager.find(Instructor.class, id);
        
        // Get the courses
        List<Course> courses = instructor.getCourses();
        
        // Break the associdation of all the courses for the instructor
        courses.forEach(course -> course.setInstructor(null));
        
        // Delete the instructor
        entityManager.remove(instructor);
    }

So now, we first break all the associdation of this instructor with its courses and only then we can delete it.

You will see a lot of SQL statements this time. First one is - 

    select i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name from instructor i1_0 left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where i1_0.id=?

It simply gets the instructor data from the database.

Then, since we used the "getCourses()" getter and we are using LAZY fetching, it will run an SQL query to get the courses -

    select c1_0.instructor_id,c1_0.id,c1_0.title from course c1_0 where c1_0.instructor_id=?

Here, we get no error of session because the session is not over yet. We are still in the same Hibernate session.

And you can actually verify this if you pass the instructor from outside into this method. In that case, you will get -

    org.springframework.orm.jpa.JpaSystemException: failed to lazily initialize a collection of role: com.mappings.cruddemo.entity.Instructor.courses: could not initialize proxy - no Session

The next two SQL queries are for the two courses and it will set the instructor id for those courses to NULL.

    update course set instructor_id=?,title=? where id=?
    update course set instructor_id=?,title=? where id=?

Then, the SQL query to delete the instructor runs - 

    delete from instructor where id=?

And finally, the SQL query to delete the instructor_detail runs - 

    delete from instructor_detail where id=?

Why this last query? Because note that in the "Instructor" class, we have - 

    @OneToOne(cascade = CascadeType.ALL)
    @JoinColumn(name = "instructor_detail_id")
    private InstructorDetail instructorDetail;

This means, all the operations on "Instructor" Entity are also cascaded to the "InstructorDetail" Entity.

And we are done!

# DELETE A COURSE

In case of deleting a course, we can directly delete it just by its id. You may wonder that do we not need to break the association? Well, if you think, then the "instructor" table does not hold any reference to the "course". It is only the "course" table that has a reference to the "instructor_id". That's why when we had to delete an instructor, we also had to first break the association.

But here, we can simply remove the course without worrying about breaking the association.

This means we can have this method and that's it - 

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void deleteCourseById(int id) {

        // Find the course
        Course course = entityManager.find(Course.class, id);

        // Delete the course
        entityManager.remove(course);
    }

So remember that if we are deleting a row from a table and the primary key column of that table is referenced in another table (Foreign key), we have to break the association first.

If there is no such reference, we can delete the row without worrying about any associations.

So, it will first find the course using this SQL query -

    select c1_0.id,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.title from course c1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where c1_0.id=?

And then it will delete it - 

    delete from course where id=?

