Let's now try to see how we can have a Uni-Directional mapping in a One to Many relationship.

Suppose we have a table for the reviews. Now, one course can have more than one reviews. So, it is a one to many mapping. And we want this to be a Uni-Directional mapping which means we can use a Course to find the reviews. But we cannot find a course from a review.

And it makes sense that if we delete a course, it should also delete the reviews because keeping the reviews if the course is deleted makes no sense. So, it means we should CASCADE the delete operation.

# PREPARING THE TABLE

First, we need to create our new "review" table. For that, again, you can head over to the scripts folder and find the "hb-one-to-many-uni" folder. Inside that, we have the script to setup all the required tables. Just run that script in MySQL Workbench.

You will see that this is the "review" table - 

    CREATE TABLE `review` (
        `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
        `comment` varchar(256) DEFAULT NULL,
        `course_id` int DEFAULT NULL,

        PRIMARY KEY (`id`),

        KEY `FK_COURSE_ID_idx` (`course_id`),

        CONSTRAINT `FK_COURSE` 
        FOREIGN KEY (`course_id`) 
        REFERENCES `course` (`id`) 

        ON DELETE NO ACTION ON UPDATE NO ACTION
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=1 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

So, we have a foreign key column named "course_id" that references the "id" colum in the "course" table.

# CREATING A REVIEW ENTITY CLASS

Next, we have to create a new Entity class for "Review".

    @Entity
    @Table(name = "review")
    public class Review {

        @Id
        @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
        @Column(name = "id")
        private int id;

        @Column(name = "comment")
        private String comment;

        // GETTERS, SETTERS AND CONSTRUCTORS

    }

# UPDATE COURSE ENTITY CLASS AND ADD REFERENCE TO REVIEW

Since we have decided that we cannot access course data using a review, we do not have any reference to "Course" entity class in "Review" entity class.

But, we can access a review from course so we have to add a new "Review" reference in the "Course" entity class.

    @OneToMany(cascade = CascadeType.ALL)
    @JoinColumn(name = "course_id")
    private List<Review> reviews;

## JOINCOLUMN VS MAPPEDBY

But wait, we thought @JoinColumn's "name" attribute refers to a column in current Entity right?

Well, not exactly.

The @JoinColumn annotation is used to specify the column for the join. It indicates which entity owns the foreign key column.

In our case, we know that the Entity that has the foreign key column is the "Review" entity. So, when we write -

    @JoinColumn(name = "course_id")

Then Spring will look at both the "Course" and "Review" Entities to find a column named as "course_id". And in this way it sees that this column is present in "Review" entity.

Now you may think, then why we are not using @ManyToOne inside the "Review" table? Well, that's because this is a "Uni-Directional" mapping which means we cannot have a reference to a Course inside our "Review" entity but we can have a reference to all the Reviews associdated witha "Course" inside the "Course" entity.

When it comes to "mappedBy", its purpose is to tell JPA to not create another JOIN table as the relationship is already being mapped by the opposite entity of this relationship.

The Entity that does not use "mappedBy" is called the "owner" of the relationship.

# ADDING A CONVENIENCE METHOD FOR ADDING A REVIEW

Just like we did in the "Instructor" entity class, let's add a convenience method inside the "Course" entity class to add a review to the list of reviews.

    public void add(Review review) {
        if (null == reviews){
            reviews = new ArrayList<>();
        }

        reviews.add(review);
    }

# ADDING A NEW METHOD TO THE DAO AND TESTING IT

Let's add a new method to save a course - 

    public interface AppDAO {
        void save(Course course);
    }

This is the implementation - 

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void save(Course course) {
        entityManager.persist(course);
    }

Now, remember that we have a "CASCADE" type as "ALL" for the Reviews so it means when we save a course, it will also save the reviews.

Now, we can test this method in the main class - 

    private void createCourseAndReviews(AppDAO appDAO) {
		Course course = new Course("A Course with Reviews");

		Review review1 = new Review("Good Course!");
		Review review2 = new Review("I liked it!");

		course.add(review1);
		course.add(review2);

		appDAO.save(course);
	}

But, before you run the app, make sure to update the application.properties to point to the new table for this "uni-directional" mapping. The new table is "hb-04-one-to-many-uni".

    spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/hb-04-one-to-many-uni
    spring.datasource.username=test
    spring.datasource.password=test

Once you run the code, the first SQL query is - 
    
    insert into course (instructor_id,title) values (?,?)

So, it first inserts a new row to the "course" table.

Then, it gets the ID of this new course and then runs the following SQL queries for reviews - 

    insert into review (comment) values (?)
    insert into review (comment) values (?)

Then, it sets the "course_id" column values for the review table - 

    update review set course_id=? where id=?
    update review set course_id=? where id=?

And that's how it all works behind the scenes.

