Finally, let's write some code to delete a course which will also delete the related reviews since we are using CASCADE TYPE as ALL.

We do not even need to add any new method to the DAO now. Because, we already have a method that takes a course id and deletes the course that has that id.

So, we can use that same method.

    private void deleteCourseAndReviews(AppDAO appDAO) {
		int id = 10;

		System.out.println("Deleting the course with id: "+ id);
		appDAO.deleteCourseById(id);
		System.out.println("COURSE DELETED");
	}

And since we use CASCADE TYPE as ALL, it will also delete all the related reviews.

So, the first SQL query that runs is -

    select c1_0.id,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.title from course c1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where c1_0.id=?

This one will find the course.

Then this SQL query runs - 

    select r1_0.course_id,r1_0.id,r1_0.comment from review r1_0 where r1_0.course_id=?

    update review set course_id=null where course_id=?

So, it fetches the reviews from the review table that are related to the course that we are going to delete. And then, it sets the course_id for those reviews to 'NULL'.

Then, it deletes the reviews that have the specific id - 

    delete from review where id=?
    delete from review where id=?

And finally, it deletes the course - 

    delete from course where id=?

And that's how all this works under the hood.


