Finally, we have the Many-to-Many mapping and to understand that, let's take an example of "Student" and "Course".

A "Student" can have many "Courses".

Similarly,

A "Course" can have many "Students".

So, this is a "Many" to "Many" mapping.

And we somehow need to keep track of this relationship so we need to keep track of what students are in which course and vice-versa.

And here, we can use something called a "JOIN TABLE".

A JOIN TABLE is a special type of table that will maintain a relationship between the course and the student. Basically, this table provides a mapping between two tables. It has foreign keys for each table to define the mapping relationship.

Let's say we have a "student" table with these columns - 

    id
    first_name
    last_name
    email

And, we have a "course" table with these columns - 

    id
    title
    instructor_id

So, a JOIN TABLE, let's call it "course_student", will have these two columns - 

    course_id
    student_id

And this JOIN TABLE will have the mapping between the two tables so we can see that which course is taken by which student and vice versa.

Also, when we delete a "Student", we do not want to delete the courses that it is associated with. Similarly, if we delete a course, we do not want to delete the Students associated with the course. Hence, we do not want to CASCADE the delete operation.

# STEP 1 - DEFINING THE DATABASE TABLES

As always, the very first step is to define our database tables that are required for understanding many-to-many mapping. In the "scripts" folder, you will find the folder named "hb-05-many-to-many". Inside that, there is a script that will create all the required tables for this section.

In that script, there are two new tables. 

First is the "student" table - 

    CREATE TABLE `student` (
        `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
        `first_name` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
        `last_name` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
        `email` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
        PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=1 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

So here, we can see that nothing special is going on. We just have a simple table with all the columns and the primary key. No foreign key column is present.

That's because we have a special "JOIN" table named "course_student" that has all the details of the mapping between student and course tables - 


    CREATE TABLE `course_student` (
        `course_id` int NOT NULL,
        `student_id` int NOT NULL,
        
        PRIMARY KEY (`course_id`,`student_id`),
        
        KEY `FK_STUDENT_idx` (`student_id`),
        
        CONSTRAINT `FK_COURSE_05` FOREIGN KEY (`course_id`) 
        REFERENCES `course` (`id`) 
        ON DELETE NO ACTION ON UPDATE NO ACTION,
        
        CONSTRAINT `FK_STUDENT` FOREIGN KEY (`student_id`) 
        REFERENCES `student` (`id`) 
        ON DELETE NO ACTION ON UPDATE NO ACTION
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

So, in this table, we have two columns named "course_id" and "student_id". The primary key is a combination of these two columns. 

The column "course_id" is referencing the "id" column of "course" table.

The column "student_id" is referencing the "id" column of the "student" table.

# STEP 2 - CREATE A STUDENT ENTITY CLASS

Now that we have a new table named "Student" in our database, we need an Entity class for this table in our Spring Boot application.

    @Entity
    @Table(name = "student")
    public class Student {

        @Id
        @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
        @Column(name = "id")
        private int id;

        @Column(name = "firstName")
        private String firstName;

        @Column(name = "lastName")
        private String lastName;

        @Column(name = "email")
        private String email;

        // GETTERS, SETTERS, and CONSTRUCTOR

    }

# STEP 3 - UPDATE THE COURSE ENTITY CLASS

Next, we need to update our "Course" entity class so that it has a reference to the "Student" entity. Since a course can be associated with many Students, it means we need a reference of type "List of Students" in our "Course" class.

And since we are dealing with Many-to-Many mapping here, we have to use @ManyToMany annotation on this reference.

    @ManyToMany
    private List<Student> students

But now the question is, what about "@JoinColumn"? Since we know that in the "student" table, we do not have any column that references the "course". Similarly, in the "course" table, we do not have any column that references the "student". And so, we cannot use @JoinColumn here. What we have to use is @JoinTable.

## WHAT IS @JOINTABLE ANNOTATION?

This annotation will tell Hibernate which join table we will use which has the relationshop between two entities in a many-to-many relationship. This annotation is only used in conjuction with a @ManyToMany annotation and we define the structure of a join table using it.

Just like the @JoinColumn, this has an attribute named "name" which takes the name of the join table. But, along with this, we also have to specify the "joinColumns" and the "inverseJoinColumns".

"joinColumns" attribute specifies the foreign key columns from the "owning" entity. In our case, the owning entity is the "Course". Similarly, the "inverseJoinColumns" attribute represents the other side of the relationship, in our case that's the "Student".

And based on this, we can now write - 

    @ManyToMany(cascade = {CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    @JoinTable(
        name = "course_student", 
        joinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "course_id"),
        inverseJoinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "student_id")
        )
    private List<Student> students;

And just like in case of "Reviews", we can also add one helper method to add the student to this list - 

    public void add(Student student) {
        if (null == students){
            students = new ArrayList<>();
        }

        students.add(student);
    }

# STEP 4 - UPDATE THE STUDENT ENTITY CLASS

We need to now also update the "Student" entity class so that it has a reference to the "Course".

    @ManyToMany(cascade = {CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    @JoinTable(
            name = "course_student",
            joinColumns = @JoinColumn(name="student_id"),
            inverseJoinColumns =  @JoinColumn(name="course_id")
    )
    private List<Course> courses;

Note that this time, the "inverse" is the "course_id" because here, we are defining a mapping form the Student to the Course. So, "Student" is the owning entity in this case, hence its column name is used in "joinColumns" attribute.

And in the same fashion, we can add a helper method to this clas as well.

    public void add(Course course) {
        if (null == courses) {
            courses = new ArrayList<>();
        }

        courses.add(course);
    }

## USING MAPPEDBY

You might wonder why didn't we use "mappedBy" annotation on the "Student" Entity class if we say that "Course" is the owner. Well, we can use that. And it will work with just one small change.

So, we can write - 

    @ManyToMany(mappedBy = "students", cascade = {CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    private List<Course> courses;

But now, this "Student" Entity is no longer considered the "owner". It will always be the "inverse". When we used "@JoinTable", it was considered as a "owner".

So now, when we add a new course to the list of courses in this Class, then we have to manually also add this student to the respective course. This is something we did earlier when we had a helper method for adding a new course for an Instructor. There, we did something like this - 

    courses.add(course);
    course.setInstructor(this);

Similarly, if we use "mappedBy" instead of "JoinTable" in our "Student" class, we have to write this in our "add" method that adds a new course to the list of courses - 

    courses.add(course);
    course.add(this); <- THIS LINE

If you do not add this last line, then when you try to update a student and add new courses for that student, it will not update the "course_student" JOIN TABLE.

The reason why this is not an issue when we add new students for a Course if because "Course" is using @JoinTable and hence is considered the owner. But that does not happen with "Student" if we use "mappedBy". Just keep this in mind.