Now that we have setup up the Entities, let's now write some logic to add courses along with the students in the database tables.

In our main class, we can write a method that will create a new course along with the students and save that course to the database. This will also save the Students in the student table because of the CASCADING.

    private void createCourseAndStudents(AppDAO appDAO) {
		
		// Create a new Course
		Course course = new Course("Understanding Many-to-Many Mapping");

		// Create the students
		Student student1 = new Student("John", "Doe", "john@gmail.com");
		Student student2 = new Student("Mary", "Kom", "mary@gmail.com");

		// Add the students to the course
		course.add(student1);
		course.add(student2);

		// Save the course to the database and this will also save the students due to CASCADING
		appDAO.save(course);
	}

Before running this code, make sure to update the application.properties file so that it points to the URL of the "hb=05-many-to-many" database.

One question you may have is why are we adding students to the course only? Why not adding this course to the individual students as well?

If we were to also add the course to the students using the add() method of "Student" clas, it could create a circular reference and could lead to potential issues. 

It is not necessary to add the course to the students explicitly because the bidirectional relationship is already established when we add the students to the course.

Now, when the code runs, the first SQL Query will be - 

	insert into course (instructor_id,title) values (?,?)

So, it first inserts a new course to the "course" table.

The next two queries are - 

	insert into student (email,first_name,last_name) values (?,?,?)
	insert into student (email,first_name,last_name) values (?,?,?)

So, this now inserts the two students in the "student" table.

And then we come to the interesting part. Hibernate now runs these two SQL queries -

	insert into course_student (course_id,student_id) values (?,?)
	insert into course_student (course_id,student_id) values (?,?)

So, it will add two new rows in our "JOIN TABLE" for the two students.

Now if you check the course_student table in the database, it will have these two rows - 

	course_id	student_id
		10			1
		10			2

And that's how a JOIN TABLE works. We now have a relationship between the "course" and "student" tables, all due to this "JOIN TABLE".