Now, the next thing we can do is to write code that will look for a specific course using its id and then also give us the related Students.

For this, we have to add a new method in our DAO Interface that will find the Course along with the Students.

    public interface AppDAO {
        Course findCourseAndStudentsByCourseId(int id);
    }

And this is the implementation - 

    @Override
    public Course findCourseAndStudentsByCourseId(int id) {
        TypedQuery<Course> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Course c JOIN FETCH c.students WHERE c.id = :id", Course.class);

        query.setParameter("id", id);

        return query.getSingleResult();
    }

Nothing new here, right?

Now, once we call this method in our main class, this will be the single SQL query that runs - 

    select c1_0.id,c1_0.instructor_id,s1_0.course_id,s1_1.id,s1_1.email,s1_1.first_name,s1_1.last_name,c1_0.title from course c1_0 join course_student s1_0 on c1_0.id=s1_0.course_id join student s1_1 on s1_1.id=s1_0.student_id where c1_0.id=?

Note that in this query, it will use the "course_student" to know what are the associated students based on the provided course_id.

One question you might have is.. why did we use "JOIN FETCH" here. Cannot we just use "findCourseById" method and then get a course? Wouldn't that also give us the "Students" list?

No it won't! Why? Becuse, the default fetch type of "ManyToMany" is "LAZY". So, if we try to do this, we will get the error - 

    org.hibernate.LazyInitializationException: failed to lazily initialize a collection of role: com.mappings.cruddemo.entity.Course.students: could not initialize proxy - no Session

One way to fix that is to set the fetch type to "EAGER" but we may not want to fetch the "Students" when we only need the "Course", right? And that's why we use "JOIN FETCH".

