Finally, let's take a look at delete operation. Remember that we do not want to cascade the delete operation which means if we delete a course, that should not delete the related students.

# DELETING A COURSE

We already have a method in our DAO to delete a course so all that we need to do is call it in our main class - 

    int id = 10;
	System.out.println("Deleting the course with id: " + id);
	appDAO.deleteCourseById(id);
	System.out.println("COURSE DELETED");

Now, look at the SQL queries in the terminal.

The first SQL query is - 

    select c1_0.id,i1_0.id,i1_0.email,i1_0.first_name,id1_0.id,id1_0.hobby,id1_0.youtube_channel,i1_0.last_name,c1_0.title from course c1_0 left join instructor i1_0 on i1_0.id=c1_0.instructor_id left join instructor_detail id1_0 on id1_0.id=i1_0.instructor_detail_id where c1_0.id=?

That's because to delete a course, we first have to find it using its id. So, this SQL query does that.

The next SQL query is this -

    select r1_0.course_id,r1_0.id,r1_0.comment from review r1_0 where r1_0.course_id=?

Remember that we also have a "review" table and we said that if we delete a Course, it should also delete the reviews. That's why it is finding all the reviews associated with that course.

It did not make a delete call for review table because currently, we do not have any reviews for this course at all.

The next SQL query is -

    delete from course_student where course_id=?

It will delete the course_id from the "course_student" table because if there is no course, then there is no relation between this course and any student.

Finally, the last SQL query is -

    delete from course where id=?

So, it deletes the course from the table.

Note that there was no SQL query to delete a student that is associated with this course because we are not CASCADING the delete operation.

# DELETING A STUDENT

Let's now do the same on the other side. Let's try to delete a student and see if that deletes the related course or not.It should not do it.

We do not have any method in our DAO to delete a student so first let's create one method in the DAO interface. And here is the implementation - 

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void deleteStudentById(int id) {

        // Find the student
        Student student = entityManager.find(Student.class, id);

        // Break associations with the courses
        List<Course> courses = student.getCourses();
        courses.forEach(course -> course.getStudents().remove(student));

        // Delete the student
        entityManager.remove(student);
    }


Why did we have to break the association in this case but we did not do anything like that in case of "Course"?

Well, remember that we are using "mappedBy" annotation in our "Student" entity class when we are referencing the "Course". And whenever we do that, we have to explicitly define and break associations. Just remember this key point.

When we added a new course using the "add" method of the "Student" entity, we had to manually write "course.add(this)" to define a relationship between the two.

Now, when we have to remove a student from the database, we have to explicitly break this relationship by iterating over all the courses related to this student and then removing this student from the list of students for those courses.

## WHAT IF WE USED @JOINTABLE IN STUDENT CLASS?

If we use "JoinTable" in "Student" class as well, we do not have to do all this - 

    @ManyToMany(cascade = {CascadeType.DETACH, CascadeType.MERGE, CascadeType.PERSIST, CascadeType.REFRESH})
    @JoinTable(
            name = "course_student",
            joinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "student_id"),
            inverseJoinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "course_id")
    )
    private List<Course> courses;
    
In this case, our delete method is simply like this - 

    public void deleteStudentById(int id) {

        // Find the student
        Student student = entityManager.find(Student.class, id);

        // Delete the student
        entityManager.remove(student);
    }

And our "add" method in "Student" class is simply like this -

    public void add(Course course) {
        if (null == courses) {
            courses = new ArrayList<>();
        }

        courses.add(course);
    }

So, just keep these points in mind whenever you work with "mappedBy" attribute.

Now, we can use our delete method in our main class.

    int id = 1;
	System.out.println("Deleting the student with id: " + id);
	appDAO.deleteStudentById(id);
	System.out.println("STUDENT DELETED");

Let's now see the SQL Queries again.

The first SQL query is just to find the student with the id - 

    select s1_0.id,s1_0.email,s1_0.first_name,s1_0.last_name from student s1_0 where s1_0.id=?

Since it does not have any foreign key that references any other table, this is a simple query with no JOINs.

Next, the SQL query runs to delete the rows from the JOIN TABLE "course_student" where this student's id is present - 

    delete from course_student where student_id=?

Finally, the SQL query runs to delete this student from "student" table - 

    delete from student where id=?

And note that while we do all this, no course is deleted because we are not cascading the DELETE operation.


