When it comes to "software testing", the fundamental aspect is "Unit Testing" in which individual components or functions of an application are tested in isolation.

This method ensures that each unit of the software performs as expected.

We provide some fixed inputs and then we expect known outputs.
 
By focusing on small, manageable parts of the application, unit testing helps identify and fix bugs early in the development process, significantly improving code quality and reliability.

Let's say we are building a calculator app and we have a method like this - 

    add(int x, int y) : int

So, we can write out tests for this method like this - 

    add(5,2) -> Expected result is 7
    add(-3,-8) -> Expected result is -11
    add(-3,1) -> Expected result is -2
    add(0,0) -> Expected result is 0

So, we can write tests with different types of input values (positive, negative, zero) and then see if the method is working as expected or not.

Spring Boot supports developing unit tests and integration tests using "JUnit" and "Mockito".

There is also a concept of "Integration Testing" where we test multiple components together as part of a test plan. We do this to see if software units work together as expected and identify any negative side effects due to integration. We can test using mocks or stubs or even using live integrations (databases, file systems) etc.

When it comes to Unit Testing Frameworks, we have two most popular frameworks - 

    - JUnit
    - Mockito

JUnit is a framework that helps with writing and running the unit tests.

Mockito is a library that enables writing tests using "mocking" approach. "Mock" simply means duplicate or dummy objects.

So, how do they both work together?

Well, JUnit is used to test the code. To test the code, sometimes we may require data classes. To create those, we can use mockito.

Basically, to minimize dependencies on external components, we use Mockito.

