What exactly is "Reflection" in programming?

The ability to inspect the code in the system and see object types is is called "Type Introspection". 

Reflection is then the ability to make modifications at runtime by making use of introspection. Some languages support introspection, but do not support reflection. One such example is C++. 

So, we can say that Reflection is a language's ability to inspect and dynamically call classes, methods, attributes, etc. at runtime.

For example, say you have an object of an unknown type in Java, and you would like to call a 'doSomething' method on it if one exists. Java's static typing system isn't really designed to support this unless the object conforms to a known interface, but using reflection, your code can look at the object and find out if it has a method called 'doSomething' and then call it if you want to.

So, if the object is "foo", then this is how the code will look like - 

    Method method = foo.getClass().getMethod("doSomething", null);
    method.invoke(foo, null);

All objects in Java have the method getClass(), which lets you determine the object's class even if you don't know it at compile time (e.g. if you declared it as an Object) - this might seem trivial, but such reflection is not possible in less dynamic languages such as C++. More advanced uses lets you list and call methods, constructors, etc.

One very common use case in Java is the usage with annotations. For example in JUnit, reflection will be used to look through your classes for methods tagged with @Test annotation and then it will call them when running the unit test.

# SPECIAL CASES DURING TESTING

So, why are we discussing "Reflection" in the Testing section?

Well, let's take a look at some special cases during testing - 

1. We may need to acces some "non-public" fields in a class. For example, in the "Hibernate/JPA" we usually have an @Id field for which we do not have any getters and setters so the only way to access it is by accessing the class variable annotated with @Id but that variable is always (most of the times) "private" which means it cannot be accessed from outside. 

And in such case, we have to use "Reflection" to access such non-public fields, to read their values and to even set their values.

2. We may need to invoke some "non-public" methods in a class for testing. You may think that why not just make them public then? Well, we may be testing legacy code and we may not be able to change it due to the corporate policy.

In general, it is quite controversial to test non-public fields and methods so if you want to do it, do it sparingly. Because if you think about it, when you do this, you are actually breaking "Encapsulation". You are doing something that is against the rules of Object Oriented Programming or the "private" methods and fields in general. You are accessing them from outside when they should not be accessible.

# SPRING REFLECTION TEST UTILS

Spring framework provides us a class for testing using "Reflection" and this class is named "ReflectionTestUtils". It’s a collection for reflection-based utility methods used in a unit, and integration testing scenarios to set the non-public fields, invoke non-public methods, and inject dependencies.