Suppose in our "CollegeStudent" class, we have a private field - 

    public class CollegeStudent implements Student {
        private int id;
    }

And there are no getters and setters to set this field from outside.

So, if we want to get the value of this "id" field for a "CollegeStudent" bean that we got from Application Context, how do we get it?

Well, we will use the "ReflectionTestUtils" class.

So, we can get the value as - 

    CollegeStudent collegeStudent = (CollegeStudent) context.getBean("collgeStudent");

    ReflectionTestUtils.getField(collegeStudent, "id");

So, to the "getField" method, we provide the object and the specific field that we are trying to access.

We can also "set" a private field using this class and the method, as you might have guessed, is named "setField". It takes the object, the name of the field and the value of that field we want to set for that object.

    CollegeStudent collegeStudent = (CollegeStudent) context.getBean("collgeStudent");

    ReflectionTestUtils.setField(collegeStudent, "id", 1);

What about the private methods?

Suppose, we have this private method in the "CollegeStudent" class - 

    private String getFirstNameAndId() {
        return getFirstname() + " " + getId();
    }

So, how to invoke it from our test class?

We can use a method named "invokeMethod" of the "ReflectionTestUtils" class - 

    CollegeStudent collegeStudent = (CollegeStudent) context.getBean("collgeStudent");

    ReflectionTestUtils.invokeMethod(collegeStudent, "getFirstNameAndId");

So, we provide it the target object and the actual method name.

If we want to pass arguments to this method (if it takes 1 or more arguments), we can just pass a comma-delimited list of arguments to this method after the second argument.

    CollegeStudent collegeStudent = (CollegeStudent) context.getBean("collgeStudent");

    ReflectionTestUtils.invokeMethod(collegeStudent, "getFirstNameAndId", "arg1", "arg2", "arg3");


So, let's use all that we learned in our unit test class.

To set the private fields (or even public one using Reflection), we can use the ReflectionTestUtils. Let's do it in @BeforeEach - 

    @BeforeEach
    public void beforeEach() {
        collegeStudent.setFirstname("Eric");
        collegeStudent.setLastname("Roby");
        collegeStudent.setEmailAddress("eric.roby@gmail.com");
        collegeStudent.setStudentGrades(studentGrades);

        ReflectionTestUtils.setField(collegeStudent, "id", 1);
        ReflectionTestUtils.setField(collegeStudent, "studentGrades",
                new StudentGrades(new ArrayList<>(Arrays.asList(
                        100.0, 85.0, 76.50, 91.75
                ))));
    }

So, here we use the "ReflectionTestUtils" to set the "id" and "studentGrades" fields. Note that "id" is private and does not have any setter. But "studentGrades" has a setter. We could've used the setter of "studentGrades" but just to see the "ReflectionTestUtils" in action, we did this.

Now, let's use the "ReflectionTestUtils" class to get the private fields.


    @Test
    @DisplayName("Access data from a private field using ReflectionTestUtils")
    public void testGetDataFromPrivateField() {

        Object result = ReflectionTestUtils.getField(collegeStudent, "id");

        assertEquals(1, result);
    }

So, we fetched the value of the "id" field using "ReflectionTestUtils" and since we had set it to "1" before this test case was run, the "assert" statement passed.

Now, let's try to invoke a private method using this class.

    @Test
    @DisplayName("Invoke a private method using ReflectionTestUtils")
    public void testInvokePrivateMethod() {

        String returnValue = ReflectionTestUtils.invokeMethod(collegeStudent, "getFirstNameAndId");

        String expected = "Eric 1";

        assertEquals(expected, returnValue, "Failed - Private method was not called!");
    }

And that's how we can use the "ReflectionTestUtils" class in Spring Boot for testing purpose.