In traditional software development, we design first, then we code and finally we test.

But with Test Driven Development, we kind of flip the script. 

So, we start with a test that will fail. Then, we will write code that makes the test pass. And then, we will refactor and improve on the design. And then this process repeats.

Test Driven Development (TDD) is a software development practice that focuses on creating unit test cases before developing the actual code. It is an iterative approach combining programming, unit test creation, and refactoring.

Let's take an example of a "Calculator" function.

When building a calculator function, a TDD approach would involve writing a test case for the “add” function and then writing the code for the process to pass that test. Once the “add” function is working correctly, additional test cases would be written for other functions such as “subtract”, “multiply” and “divide”.

Or, let's take an even better example of an E-commerce website.

When building an e-commerce website, a TDD approach would involve writing test cases for various features such as product listings, shopping cart functionality, and checkout process. Tests would be written to ensure the system works correctly at each process stage, from adding items to the cart to completing the purchase.

So, what are the benefits of Test Driven Development?

Well, we have a clear task list of things to test and develop. Also, the tests will help us identify the edge cases and develop code in small increments. Moreover, passing test cases increase the confidencein code.

Finally, the tests are like your satefy net. They give you the freedom to refactor. So, if you make some changes and the tests pass, then it means your code did not break anything that was working previously.

In this TDD section, we will have a simple "FizBuzz" project where we will write a program to print the first 100 "FizzBuzz" numbers from 1 to 100.

This is a pretty common coding problem where -

    - If the number is divisible by 3, print Fizz
    - If the number is divisible by 5, print Buzz
    - If the number is divisible by 3 and 5, print FizzBuzz
    - If the number is not divisible by 3 or 5, print the number itself