So, we have successfully created an Entity class that will be mapped to a database table.

Now, what we want is to create an object of this class and then save that as a row in the table in our database.

# DATA ACCESS OBJECT (DAO)

If you go over some Spring Boot code, you will find some classes named as "DAO". "DAO" stands for "Data Access Object" and this is a design pattern that separates the data access logic from the business logic in an application.

The main purpose of the DAO pattern is to create a dedicated layer that handles all the interactions with the data storage system. This layer encapsulates the low-level operations required to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on data entities, hiding the complexity of the data access logic from the rest of the application. 

# STUDENT DAO

In our project too, we will create a Student DAO which will be responsible for interfacing with the database. This Student DAO will have a number of methods such as "save", "findById", "findAll", "findByLastName", "update", "delete", "deleteAll" etc.

Our DAO needs a "JPA Entity Manager" which is the main component for saving/retrieving entities. The JPA Entity Manager in turn needs a Data Source which defines database connection information. As we already discussed before, the JPA Entity Manager and DataSource are automatically created by Spring Boot based on the properties in our application.properties file.

So, we can inject or autowire the JPA Entity Manager into our Student DAO.

## STEP 1 - CREATE A DAO INTERFACE

First, we create an Interface for the Student DAO -

    public interface StudentDAO {
        void save(Student student);
    }

For now, it has only one method named "save" that is used to add a new row to the database table based on the student object we pass to this method.

## STEP 2 - DEFINE THE DAO IMPLEMENTATION

Next, we have to create the actual class that implements this interface.

    public class StudentDAOImpl implements StudentDAO{...}

## STEP 3 - INJECT THE ENTITY MANAGER

Next, this DAOImpl class needs the EntityManager instance so we will use Constructor Injection to inject it.

    public class StudentDAOImpl implements StudentDAO{
    
        private EntityManager entityManager;
        
        @Autowired
        public StudentDAOImpl(EntityManager entityManager){
            this.entityManager = entityManager;
        }
    }

## STEP 4 - IMPLEMENT THE METHOD

Finally, we have to implment the "save" method of the DAO Interface which takes the student object and creates a new row in the student table.

    public class StudentDAOImpl implements StudentDAO{
    
        private EntityManager entityManager;
        
        @Autowired
        public StudentDAOImpl(EntityManager entityManager){
            this.entityManager = entityManager;
        }
        
        
        @Override
        public void save(Student student) {
            entityManager.persist(student);
        }
    }

So, we use the "entityManager" here and use its "persist" method for this purpose.