For the DAOs, we can use a specialized annotation @Repository which is a specialization of @Component annotation that is used to indicate that the class provides the mechanism for storage, retrieval, update and deletion on objects.

So, if we use the @Repository annotation on a DAOImpl class, Spring will automatically register the DAO implementation, thanks to component-scanning.

Another important thing that this annotation does is that it provides translation of any JDBC related exceptions.

So, let's add the @Repository annotation to our DAOImpl class.

    @Repository
    public class StudentDAOImpl implements StudentDAO{...}


# FINAL STEP

Finally, we have to write some code in our main class because remember that this is a command-line app so whatever we want to show in the command line after all the beans are loaded is something we can write inside our main class.

In the main class, we simply have to inject the dependency for our StudentDAO and then use its "save" method to save a student object in the table.

    private StudentDAO studentDAO;

	@Autowired
	public CruddemoApplication(StudentDAO studentDAO) {
		this.studentDAO = studentDAO;
	}

To verify that the student was saved, we can print its "id" in the terminal.

This is what the "run" method will have - 

    public void run(String... args) throws Exception {

		// Create a student object
		System.out.println("Creating a new student object....");
		Student tempStudent = new Student("Paul", "Doe", "paul@google.com");

		// Save the student object in the database
		System.out.println("Saving the student....");
		studentDAO.save(tempStudent);

		// Display the id of the saved student
		System.out.println("Saved student. Generated id: "+ tempStudent.getId());
	}

And once you run the application, it should print - 

    Creating a new student object....
    Saving the student....
    Saved student. Generated id: 1

And to verify that the row was inserted, you can use the MySQL Workbench to see the rows in the student table. You will see that a new row has been added.
