We have covered the "CREATE" portion of our "CRUD" app. Let's now move to the "READ" portion.

The simplest way to retrieve any data from the database using JPA is to use the "find" method of the EntityManager which takes two arguments - The Entity Class, and the primary key value of the row that we want to fetch.

So, if we want the student with an id of 1, we will write - 

    Student myStudent = entityManager.find(Student.class, 1)

Under the hood, JPA will handle conversion of the database row to ab object of "Student" class and then return us that object. If there is no such row, then "null" will be returned.

# STEP 1 - ADD A NEW METHOD TO THE DAO INTERFACE

So, let's start by adding a new method to find the user by id in the DAO interface and later, we will implement this method in the DAOImpl class.

    public interface StudentDAO {
        void save(Student student);
        Student findById(Integer id);
    }

# STEP 2 - IMPLEMENT THE METHOD IN THE DAOIMPL CLASS

Next, we have to implement this "findById" method inside the DAOImpl class - 

    @Override
    public Student findById(Integer id){
       return entityManager.find(Student.class, id);
    }

Notice that here, we did not use the @Transactional annotation because remember that we are not doing any Insertion or Updation in this method. We are simply doing a retrieval.

# STEP 3 - TEST THE METHOD IN THE MAIN CLASS

So, in the main class where we have the code to create a new student object and save it in the database and show its id, we can add this simple code after that -

    System.out.println("Retrieving student with id: "+ tempStudent.getId());
	System.out.println("Student details: "+ studentDAO.findById(tempStudent.getId()));

And in the console, we will see - 

    Retrieving student with id: 1
    Student details: Student{id=1, firstName=Paul, lastName=Doe, email=paul@google.com}

So, this means we successfully fetched data from the table.