We learned how we can query a single object from the database using JPA. But, what about querying multiple objects?

JPA uses a query language named "JPQL" or "Java Persistence Query Language" or "Jakarta Persistence Query Language". "JPQL" is developed based on SQL syntax. "JPQL" is based on the Entity name and Entity fields, as opposed to SQL which uses table names and table columns.

# RETRIEVING ALL THE OBJECTS

Let's say we want to list out all the objects in the student table. We can use the "createQuery" method of the EntityManager for that.

This method takes in two arguments. First is the query string and the second is the Entity class.

So, we can write - 

    entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student", Student.class);

This method gives us a result of type "TypedQuery" and from this result, we can get a list of objects using the getResultList() method.

So, in our DAOImpl, the code to fetch all the students will be like this - 


    @Override
    public List<Student> findAll() {
        TypedQuery<Student> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student", Student.class);

        return query.getResultList();
    }

# RETRIEVING OBJECTS CONDITIONALLY

What if we specifically want to retrive objects that match a specific condition? Maybe, we want to fetch objects where the first name starts with a "J".

Well, we can do that using the createQuery method too. We just have to write the WHERE clause.

    entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student WHERE firstName LIKE 'J%'", Student.class);

Notice that in the query, we did not write "first_name" which is the actual column name. We write "firstName" which is the name of the Entity Class field name.

Let's say we want to retrieve students whose first name starts with a "J" or the last name is "stark". Well, we can use the "OR" keyword.

    entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student WHERE firstName LIKE 'J%' OR lastName = 'stark'", Student.class);

# JPQL NAMED PARAMETERS

So far, we have hardcoded the data or the conditions in our query. For example, we do not want to hardcode the lastName as 'stark'. What if later, we want to specifically search for objects where lastName is 'Doe'?

So, we want a dynamic way so that we can pass the lastName value from outside into the query. In this case, we can use "Named" parameters.

In JPQL, the named parameters start with a colon (:). And after the createQUery method, we have to set the values of these named parameters using "setParameter" method of the TypedQuery.

For example,

    TypedQuery<Student> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student WHERE lastName = :lastName", Student.class);
    
    query.setParameter("lastName", "stark");

Note that there won't be any error thrown if your named parameter has the same name as one of the Entity class fields. This is just a placeholder that we fill later.

To make it really dynamic, we can accept the last name value from the outside as a parameter to this method.

    @Override
    public List<Student> findByLastName(String lastName) {
        TypedQuery<Student> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student WHERE lastName = :lastName", Student.class);

        query.setParameter("lastName", lastName);

        return query.getResultList();
    }

# THE SELECT CLAUSE

We see that so far, we haven't written any query that uses the "SELECT" clause. That's becuase the "Hibernate" implementation of JPA is lenient and allows Hibernate Query Language (HQL). For strict "JPQL", "SELECT" clause is required.

So, if we have to follow the JPQL strictly, we have to write queries like this - 

    entityManager.createQuery("SELECT s FROM Student s", Student.class);

But since we are using Hibernate, we can omit the "SELECT" clause alltogether.

    entityManager.createQuery("FROM Student", Student.class);