After "Create" and "Read", the next operation is "Update" in our CRUD application.

There are basically three steps in updating an object - 

    1. Find the object using EntityManager
    2. Update its one or more field values
    3. Update the object using EntityManager

We already know how we can find an object using the EntityManager and we even saw some cases where we can write custom queries to find specific objects.

The most basic way to find any object is using its primary key and using the "find" method of EntityManager.

    Student student = entityManager.find(Student.class, 1);

Once we have the object, we can then use one of the setter methods of the Entity class to set/update the value of any field.

For example, maybe we want to update the first name. So we can write - 

    student.setFirstName("Scooby");

And finally, once we have made the required updates, we will use the "merge" method of the EntityManager to update the object.

# UPDATING MULTIPLE OBJECTS

Can we update more than one objects at once? Because in case of databases, we know that we can write UPDATE statements to update multiple rows.

Well, we can indeed do the same in JPA.

We will again use the "createQuery" method to write an "UPDATE" query. But, unlike the previous sections, we will also use another method with this named "executeUpdate()".

So, let's say we want to update the last name of all the students. We will write - 

    entityManager.createQuery("UPDATE Student SET lastName='Test'").executeUpdate();

When we run this, what this will give us back is the number of rows that are updated.

# LET'S CODE

Now, let's implement what we learned in the code.


## STEP 1 - ADD A NEW METHOD TO THE DAO INTERFACE

First, we add a new "update" method to the StudentDAO interface - 

    public interface StudentDAO {
        void save(Student student);
        Student findById(Integer id);
        List<Student> findAll();
        List<Student> findByLastName(String lastName);
        void update(Student student); <- THIS ONE
    }

# STEP 2 - IMPLEMENT THE METHOD IN THE IMPL CLASS

Next, since our DAOImpl class implements the DAO interface, we have to implement this "update" method.

    @Override
    @Transactional
    public void update(Student student) {
        entityManager.merge(student);
    }

Note that we are using @Transactional annotation on this method because remember that we are doing an update here. So, this should be done as a part of a transaction and the changes should only be committed if the transaction succeeds.

# STEP 3 - UPDATING THE MAIN CLASS

Finally, it's time to use this newly added method in our main class.

So, let's find a student with a specific id and then update the last name.

    @Override
	public void run(String... args) throws Exception {

		Student student = studentDAO.findById(5);

		System.out.println("Before update, the student is: " + student);

		student.setLastName("Test");
		studentDAO.update(student);

		System.out.println("After update, the student is: " + student);

	}

And to verify that the update indeed happened, we can check the table using the MySQL Workbench.

# PERSIST VS MERGE

If you use "merge()" to insert a new object into the database, then it will work as well. So, why even use "persist()" if we have merge?

Whichever we use, it will add an entity into the "Persistence Context". What is this "Persistence Context"?

Within a persistence context, entities are managed. The "EntityManager" controls their lifecycle, and they can access datastore resources.

The difference between "merge" and "persist" is in what you do with the entity afterwards. 

It will be easy to understand using code.

Let's start with "persist".

Suppose, that in the "save" method in our DAOImpl, we have this code - 

    public void save(Student student) {
        entityManager.persist(student);
        student.setFirstName("TestNew");
    }

So here, after we use "persist" to save the object in the database table, we are also updating its first name afterwards. Do you think the first name will be updated in the table?

Well, the answer is YES!

Persist takes an entity instance, adds it to the context and makes that instance managed (i.e. future updates to the entity will be tracked).

Now, what would happen if we try to do the same with "merge"?

    public void update(Student student) {
        entityManager.merge(student);
        student.setFirstName("TestNewTest");
    }

Will the first name be updated in the database?

The answer is NO!

The instance you pass in will not be managed (any changes you make will not be part of the transaction - unless you call merge again). In short, any change made "after" you call "merge" will not be reflected in the database.

But, the "merge" method returns the "managed" instance that the state was merged with. It either returns something that exists in PersistenceContext or creates a new instance of your entity.

So, you can use this "returned" instance to update the data in the database even after "merge" has been called.

Here is how the code will look like for this - 

    public void update(Student student) {
        Student updated = entityManager.merge(student);
        updated.setFirstName("TestNewTest");
    }

Notice how we get hold of the returned instance and then on that instance we call the setter.

So, the bottom line is that "merge" will take an instance but does not make it managed. It returned an instance that is managed.

On the other hand, "persist" will take an instance, add it to the context and make this instance as managed so that future updates are tracked.

From all this, you can also understand what are "managed" entities. Entities become managed once they are persisted or retrieved from the database. Managed entities are automatically synchronized with the database upon transaction commit.