In the start of this section, we created a database table using an SQL Script in the MySQL workbench. But, there is another option to create database tables and that's using what JPA/Hibernate provides us.

The tables will be created based on the Java code with JPA/Hibernate annotations. This is very useful for development and testing.

For that, in the Spring Boot application.properties file, you have to add this -

    spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=create

Now, when you run the application, JPA/Hibernate will drop the tables and then "create" them. And this is all based on the JPA/Hibernate annotations in your Java code. Remember how in our Entity class, we have mentioned what are the column names, what is the table name, what is the primary key and how the primary key value will be generated. All this is defined by us using annotations and that's what is used to generate a new table.

# WHAT ALL VALUES "DDL-AUTO" CAN TAKE?

Apart from "create", what all values it can take?

    1. none -> No action is performed
    2. create-only -> Database tables are only created
    3. drop -> Database tables are dropped
    4. create -> Database tables are dropped, followed by table creation
    5. create-drop -> Database tables are dropped, followed by database table creation. On application shutdown, all the database tables are dropped. This is useful for unit testing.
    6. validate -> Validate the database tables schema.
    7. update -> Update the database tables schema.

For basic projects, we can use auto-configuration so we can use the "create" value so that the database tables are dropped first and then created from scratch.

But, if you want to create tables once, and then keep the data, use "update". But, it will ALTER the database schema based on latest code updates. So, be very careful here and use these only for BASIC PROJECTS!

**DO NOT USE THESE ON PRODUCTION DATABASES. YOU DO NOT WANT TO DROP YOUR PRODUCTION DATABSE TABLES!!**

# WHERE IS IT HELPUL?

Automatic table generation is useful for Database integration testing with in-memory databases. And it is also really good for basic, small hobby projects.

For enterprise, real-time projects, SQL scripts are recommended.

# LOGGING THE SQL STATEMENTS IN THE TERMINAL

We know that JPA/Hibernate does all the SQL work behind the scenes but what if we want to see what is the resulting SQL statement for any method that is run behind the scenes? For this, we can log the SQL statements to the terminal. And for that, we have to add two lines in application.properties - 

    # Log SQL Statements
    logging.level.org.hibernate.SQL=debug

    # Log Values for SQL Statements
    logging.level.org.hibernate.orm.jdbc.bind=trace

So, the first line will Log the SQL statements and the second line will log the parameters of that SQL statements so that we can really see what all data is being inserted using this SQL statement.

And now, if we call the insertMultipleStudents() method, you will see that console will print some logs like these - 

    org.hibernate.SQL: insert into student (email,first_name,last_name) values (?,?,?)
    org.hibernate.orm.jdbc.bind: binding parameter (1:VARCHAR) <- [paul@google.com]
    org.hibernate.orm.jdbc.bind: binding parameter (2:VARCHAR) <- [Paul]
    org.hibernate.orm.jdbc.bind: binding parameter (3:VARCHAR) <- [Doe]

So, the first line is the actual SQL statement and the next lines will show what are the parameters. For example, the email is "paul@google.com", first_name is "Paul" and last_name is "Doe".

# ENABLING AUTO-GENERATION

Now, let's break the app on purpose. Let's drop the student table from our MySQL Workbench and see what happens if we run our app again.

An error will be thrown - 

    Caused by: java.sql.SQLSyntaxErrorException: Table 'student_tracker.student' doesn't exist

This makes sense because the table does not exist at all!

So, it would be helpful if our table is generated on every application run. And that's where we can use the Auto Generation feature of JPA/Hibernate.

So, we just have to add this one line to the application.properties file - 

    spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=create

And that's it! Now, when our application runs, it will first drop the student table if it exists (Since that's the only entity class we have right now), and create a new table named "student" in the database.

And you can actually see this in the logs in the terminal because before any insert statements are executed, there are these two statements - 

    org.hibernate.SQL: drop table if exists student
    org.hibernate.SQL: create table student (id integer not null auto_increment, email varchar(255), first_name varchar(255), last_name varchar(255), primary key (id)) engine=InnoDB

And that's why our code will run without any issues because we will always have a student table in our database on each application run.

Let's update the application.properties file to not remove the previous data. We have to use "update" value for that.

    spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update

In this case, you will see that the table is not dropped and not re-created.

And you will see that in MySQL Workbench, there will be duplicate entries because the previous data is not removed before putting a new data in the table.
