Spring is a very popular framework for building Java applications, and provides a large number of helper classes and annotations.

The Spring Framework handles the infrastructure so that you can focus on your application.

The Spring framework can be considered as a collection of sub-frameworks, also called layers, such as Spring AOP. Spring Object-Relational Mapping (Spring ORM). Spring Web Flow, and Spring Web MVC. It is a lightweight application framework used for developing enterprise applications. You can use any of these modules separately while constructing a Web application. The modules may also be grouped together to provide better functionalities in a Web application. Spring framework is loosely coupled because of dependency Injection.

# THE PROBLEM WITH SPRING FRAMEWORK

The biggest problem with Spring Framework is that building traditional Spring Applications is really hard, mainly because a lot of configuration is required before you actually start the main work.

For a Spring Application, you have to decide things like - 

1. Which JAR dependencies do I need?
2. How do I set up configuration? (XML or Java)
3. How do I install the server? (Tomcat, JBoss, etc...)

And all these are just the basics to get started with a Spring Application.

# THE SOLUTION - SPRING BOOT

In 2014, the first Spring Boot version was released.

Spring Boot is based on the Spring Framework, and it aims to provide developers with a streamlines way to create Java applications with minimal configuration.

While Spring focuses on providing flexibility, Spring Boot shortens code length by using annotation and template configuration to speed up application development. This helps create standalone applications with less or almost no configuration burden.

Spring Boot will perform the autoconfiguration based on the properties files and JAR classpath.

It also helps resolve dependency conflicts (Maven or Gradle) and provides an embedded HTTP server so that you can get started quickly.

# SPRING INITIALIZR

Spring Initializr is a web application that you can use to generate a Spring Boot project. All you need to do is select the necessary configuration such as -

1. Gradle or Maven
2. Java or Kotlin or Groovy
3. Spring Boot Version
4. Project Metadata
5. Dependencies

Once you generate the project, all you need to do is import the project into your IDE of choice.

# EMBEDDED SERVER

Spring Boot provides an embedded HTTP server so that you can get started quickly. It has support for Tomcat, Jetty, Undertow etc.

So, there is no need to install them separately.

If you have a jar file of your Spring Boot application, then this file will not only include your application code, but it will also have the server.

# RUNNING SPRING BOOT APPS

Spring Boot apps can run standalone as they include the embedded server. So, if we want to run a Spring Boot app, we can do that from the IDE or the command line.

Suppose we have a Spring Boot Application's jar file named "myapp.jar".

We can simply run - 
    
    java -jar myapp.jar

And it will run the application and also start the server.

# DEPLOYING SPRING BOOT APPS

What if we want to deploy Spring Boot applications in the traditional way? That is, as a "WAR" (Web Application Archive) file.

Well, we can deploy Spring Boot apps as WAR files to an external server (Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, etc...).