When you join a new project, each development team dreams up their own directory structure. It is not ideal for newcomers and not standardized.

Maven solves this problem by providing a standard directory structure.

At the root of the directory, we have the pom.xml file which is the configuration file that has all the information that Maven needs related to the project and its dependencies.

At src/main/java we have the Java source code.

At src/main/resources, we have the properties files or the config files that will be used by our Spring application.

At src/main/webapp, we have the JSP files and web config files and other web assets like images, css, js etc.

At src/test, we have the unit test related code and properties.

Finally, the target directory is for compiled code, and it is created automatically by Maven.

# BENEFITS OF THIS STANDARD DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

Most major IDE's have built-in support for Maven. For example, Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans etc. And IDE's can easily read/import Maven projects.

Maven projects are also portable so Developers can easily share projects between IDEs.

# MAVEN WRAPPER FILES

In a Maven project, you will also find a couple of files named "mvnw" and "mvnw.cmd". These are files from the Maven wrapper. This allows you to run the Maven project without having Maven installed and present on the path. 

THe "mvnw" file is for Linux (bash), and "mvnw.cmd" is for the Windows Environment.

For Window, we can run Maven commands using this wrapper like - 
    
    mvnw clean compile test

For Linux, we can run - 
    
    ./mvnw clean compile trest

If the correct version of Maven is not found on your computer, these files will automatically donwload the correct version and run Maven.

If you already have Maven installed on your system, you can safely delete the mvnw files. So, in this case, you can directly run the commands - 

    mvn clean compile test

# APPLICATION PROPERTIES

By default, Spring Boot will load the properties from "application.properties" file. When you create your project using the Spring Initializr, this properties file is created automatically in src/main/resources.

# STATIC FOLDER

By default, Spring Boost will load the static resources from this "static" folder. Examples of the static resources include HTML files, CSS, JavaScript, Images, and so on.

# TEMPLATE FOLDER

Spring Boot includes autoconfiguration for following template engines - 
    
    1. FreeMarker
    2. ThymeLeaf
    3. Mustache

# IMPORTANT NOTE

Do not use the src/main/webapp directory if your application is packaged as a JAR. Although this is a standard Maven directory, it only works with WAR packaging and silently ignored by most build tools if you generate a JAR.