# THE PROBLEM

How do we monitor and manage our application?

How do check the application health?

How to access application metrics?

# THE SOLUTION

Spring Boot Actuator is the sub-project of Spring Boot and adds several production grade services to our application with little effor on our part.

When we use Spring Boot Actuator, it exposes some endpoints to monitor and manage the application. So, we get the DevOps functionality out of the box.

All we have to do is add the dependency to the POM file and the REST endpoints are automatically added to the application. There is no need to write additional code.

This is the dependency we have to add - 

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
    </dependency>

# THE ENDPOINTS

The Spring Boot Actuator endpoints are prefixed with "/actuator". Here are some endpoints that we get - 

   1. /health summarizes the health status of our application.
   2. /info returns general information. It might be custom data, build information or details about the latest commit.
   3. /beans returns all available beans in our BeanFactory. Unlike /auditevents, it doesn’t support filtering.
   4. /env returns the current environment properties. Additionally, we can retrieve single properties.
   5. /logfile returns ordinary application logs.
   6. /shutdown performs a graceful shutdown of the application.
   7. /sessions lists HTTP sessions, given we are using Spring Session.

These are just a few of the endpoints that are available.

For example, if you go to /actuator/health endpoint, it will tell you if the application state is "UP" or "DOWN".

# EXPOSING THE ENDPOINTS

It is worth mentioning that by default, only the "/health" endpoint is enabled so if you try to access other endpoints mentioned above, you will get the same error as we got previously when we did not have a Rest Controller.

We can also list the endpoints that we want to be enabled.

Inside the "applicatin.properties", we have to tell Spring Boot all the endpoints that we want to be exposed.

Let's say we also want the "/info" endpoint to be exposed. We have to add these two entries in "application.properties" file - 

    management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=health,info
    management.info.env.enabled=true

For any new app, if you visit /actuator/info, chances are that it will be empty. Because there is literally no information yet to display.

We can add some entries inside the application.properties which will then be displayed by the "/info" endpoint.

We just have to make sure they start with "info.". For example - 

    info.app.name= My Spring Boot App
    info.app.description= A fun little Spring Boot application!
    info.app.version=1.0.0

And now, once the app reloads and you visit the /actuator/info endpoint, it will display the above information in the browser.

What if we want to expose al l the endpoints? Well, we can use a "wildcard" to expose all of them - 

    management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=*

# SECURING THE ENDPOINTS

Yes, the endpoints are really helpful but only if they can be accessed only by us. Right now, they can be accessed by anyone using our application because we haven't added any restrictions. And this is not ideal from security point of view.

To secure the endpoints, we can add "Spring Security" to the project and the endpoints will be secured.

Spring Security is a powerful and highly customizable authentication and access-control framework. It is the de-facto standard for securing Spring-based applications.

All we need to do is add the dependency in the POM file - 

    <dependency>        
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>        
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-security</artifactId>
    </dependency>

One thing to note is that the /health will still be available for anyone to access but we can disable it by some extra configuration from our end.

Once you have added the dependency and application is started, you will now see that even if we expose all the endpoints, when we go to the URL such as "/actuator/info", it will show a login page. 

But, what is the user id and password?

Well, if you look at the terminal of your IDE, you will see this - 

    Using generated security password: c903f644-c877-461c-8080-0a77df94916a

So, Spring Security will generate a password automatically when the app starts so that you can then use this password whenever it asks for login.

The default username is "user". 

But, what if we want to set our custom username and password? Well, we can do that using application.properties file.

    spring.security.user.name=test
    spring.security.user.password=test

# EXCLUDE ENDPOINTS

We can also exclude endpoints. So, if we want to exclude the endpoints "health" and "info" so that no one can access them, even if they have the username and password, we can add an entry in the application.properties - 

    management.endpoints.web.exposure.exclude=health,info