The application.properties file is a very useful file to configure Spring Boot. 

We can actually configure the Spring Boot Server, the context path, the actuator, security and more. 

There are over 1000 properties that can be used in the application.properties file.

The properties can be roughly grouped into following categories - 

    1. Core
    2. Web
    3. Security
    4. Data
    5. Actuator
    6. Integration
    7. DevTools
    8. Testing

# CORE PROPERTIES

For example, in the Core properties, we have properties to set the logging levels. There are various logging levels such as "TRACE", "DEBUG", "INFO", "ERROR", "WARN", "FATAL", and "OFF".

If we want to set the logging levels for various packages at one place, we can do that like this - 

    logging.level.org.springframework=DEBUG
    logging.level.org.hibernate=TRACE
    logging.level.com.myapp=INFO

We can also specify the file name where the logs will be added.

    logging.file.name=log-file.log
    logging.file.path=c:/myapps/demo

# WEB PROPERTIES

For the "Web" properties, we can do things like setting the default server port (default is 8080).

    server.port=7070

We can also change the context path for the application. The default is "/"

    server.servlet.context-path=/myapp

Adding the above two properties will now mean we have to start the URLs with "localhost:7070/myapp" instead of simply "localhost:7070".

We can also set the default HTTP session time out.

    server.servlet.session.timeout=15m

# ACTUATOR PROPERTIES

We have already seen some Actuator properties. For example, we can specify what all endpoints we want to expose.

    management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=info

We can also specify what all endpoints to exclude -

    management.endpoints.web.exposure.exclude=health

We can also set the base path for the actutator endpoints.

    management.endpoints.web.base-path=/actutator

This is kind of same as the context path. By default, it is "/actuator" and that's the reason why all the actutator endpoints by default have to start with "/actutator".

# SECURITY PROPERTIES

We can specify the default user name and password.

    spring.security.user.name=test
    spring.security.user.password=topsecret

# DATA PROPERTIES

We can do things like specifying the JDBC URL of the database.

    spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql......

We can specify the username and password for the database
    
    spring.datasource.username=tom
    spring.datasource.password=test

You can find all the common application properties here on this page - https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/appendix/application-properties/index.html
