In the code, we saw that when we defined the "CricketCoach" class, we annotated it with "@Component" annotation. We did that because Spring will scan your Java classes for special annotations, one of which is the @Component annotation.

And once it finds a class with @Component annotation, it automatically registers the bean in the Spring Container.

If you open the main java file that we use to run the Spring application, you will find this code - 

    @SpringBootApplication
    public class DemoApplication {

        public static void main(String[] args) {
            SpringApplication.run(DemoApplication.class, args);
        }

    }

Note that it uses an annotation named "@SpringBootApplication".

This annotation is a combination of three different annotations - 

    @EnableAutoConfiguration
    @Configuration
    @ComponentScan


# @ENABLEAUTOCONFIGURATION

The @EnableAutoConfiguration will enable the Spring Boot's auto-configuration mechanism. 

What is this "auto-configuration" mechanism?

Spring Boot auto-configuration attempts to automatically configure your Spring application based on the jar dependencies that you have added. 

For example, if HSQLDB is on your classpath, and you have not manually configured any database connection beans, then Spring Boot auto-configures an in-memory database.

# @CONFIGURATION

This annotation indicates that an object is a source of bean definitions. Note that in Spring Boot, we do not have to worry about creating the Bean definitions ourselves as Spring Boot handles that for us. 

# @COMPONENTSCAN

It tells Spring to scan the current package and all its sub-packages if we do not explicitly provide any arguments to this annotation.

When you use @ComponentScan, Spring will scan the specified package(s) for classes annotated with @Component (or any of its specialisations, such as @Controller, @Service, or @Repository) and automatically create instances of these classes as beans in the Spring container. These beans can then be injected into other beans or components using dependency injection.

If there are packages outside of the current package that Spring Boot won't automatically scan, you can explicitly specify them using the @SpringBootApplication annotation.

For example -

    @SpringBootApplication(scanBasePackages={"com.example.util", "com.example.myapp"})

This will instruct Spring to scan the com.example.myapp package (and its sub-packages) for all classes annotated with @Component or its specialisations, and register them as beans in the Spring container.

Note that you can also specify additional packages to scan by passing an array of strings to the value attribute of the @ComponentScan annotation. Additionally, you can customize the behavior of @ComponentScan by using other attributes, such as basePackages, basePackageClasses, excludeFilters, and includeFilters.

# WHAT IF WE HAVE NOT SPECIFIED @COMPONENTSCAN IN A SPRING BOOT PROJECT?

If you have not specified @ComponentScan in a Spring Boot project, Spring Boot will use its default component scanning behavior to detect and register Spring-managed components in your application.

By default, Spring Boot will perform component scanning starting from the package of your main class (the class annotated with @SpringBootApplication). Spring Boot will automatically detect and register any components annotated with @Component or its specializations (@Controller, @Service, @Repository, etc.) in this package and its sub-packages.

If your Spring-managed components are located in a different package or do not follow the default naming conventions (e.g. they are not annotated with @Component or its specializations), then you will need to explicitly specify the packages to be scanned using @ComponentScan.