There is a third type of Injection type in Spring named "Field Injection" but this is something you should avoid. 

Before talking about why it is not recommended, let's see how Field Injection works.

In case of Field Injection, we use the @Autowired annotation directly on the instances instead of creating a constructor or setter methods.

So, in case of our DemoController, the code will look like this when we use Field Injection - 

    @RestController
    public class DemoController {

        @Autowired <- ANNOTATION DIRECTLY OVER THE INSTANCE
        private Coach coach;

        @GetMapping("/dailyworkout")
        String getWorkout() {
            return coach.getDailyWorkout();
        }
    }

This one looks simpler than the other two right?

In fact, in early days of Spring, the field injection was very popular on Spring Projects. But, in recent years, it has fallen out of favor.

The biggest problem is that it makes unit testing the code harder.
Your classes cannot be instantiated (for example in unit tests) without reflection. You need the DI container to instantiate them, which makes your tests more like integration tests.


In Field Injection, you cannot create immutable objects, as you can with constructor injection. Moreover, the classes have tight coupling with the dependency injection container and cannot be used outside of it.

It is really easy to have like ten dependencies. If you were using constructor injection, you would have a constructor with ten arguments, which would signal that something is fishy. But you can add injected fields using field injection indefinitely. Having too many dependencies is a red flag that the class usually does more than one thing, and that it may violate the Single Responsibility Principle.

So, the bottomline is that depending on your needs, you should primarily use constructor injection or some mix of constructor and setter injection. Field injection has many drawbacks and should be avoided. The only advantage of field injection is that it is more convenient to write, which does not outweigh all the cons.

