Let's look at our code to understand how the @Autowiring annotation is working.

The "DemoController" requires a dependency of type "Coach". So, what Spring will do is, it will scan all the classes that are annotated with @Component (or other similar annotations like @Service, @Repository, etc).

Spring is looking for a class that implements the "Coach" interface. If it founds one, it knows that this class's object is the dependency that is required by the "DemoController" so it will inject it.

But, while it sounds easy and simple, we often have multiple classes implementing the same interface. And that's where Spring will get confused because in that case, there are more than one classes and it does not know which dependency is required out of all those.

Let's have some more classes in our code that implement the "Coach" interface and see what happens if we run the app.

let's say we have two more classes "FootballCoach" and "BaseballCoach". 

This is how the "FootballCoach" class looks like -

    @Component
    public class FootballCoach implements Coach{

        @Override
        public String getDailyWorkout() {
            return "Practice dribbling for 20 minutes!";
        }
    }

This is how the "BaseballCoach" class looks like - 

    @Component
    public class BaseballCoach implements Coach {

        @Override
        public String getDailyWorkout() {
            return "Practice pitching for 10 minutes!";
        }
    }

Now, if we run the application, we see that the application fails to start.

This is the error message - 

    Parameter 0 of method getCoach in com.myapp.demo.controller.DemoController required a single bean, but 3 were found.

And this means that when Spring tries to look for a class that has the @Component annotation and is implementing the "Coach" interface, it actually finds more than one class. And it does not know which one is the class that the DemoController actually needs.

You will see that the console also gives you a solution - 

    Consider marking one of the beans as @Primary, updating the consumer to accept multiple beans, or using @Qualifier to identify the bean that should be consumed.

# QUALIFIER ANNOTATION

One solution to the above problem is to use the @Qualifier annotation.

When we use the @Qualifier annotation, we specify the name of the specific implementation that we want to use.

Let's say our DemoController specifically needs the instance of "CricketCoach" class. In that case, we will use the @Qualifier annotation and pass it the "Bean id". By default, the bean id is simply the name of the class with the first character lower-case.

So, we can write - 

    @Autowired
    public DemoController(@Qualifier("cricketCoach") Coach coach) {
        this.coach = coach;
    }

If we use Setter Injection, we can write -

    @Autowired
    public void getCoach(@Qualifier("cricketCoach") Coach coach) {
        this.coach = coach;
    }

# ANOTHER WAY TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM WITHOUT USING @QUALIFIER

There is a way to solve this problem without using any extra annotation at all. And that's by changing the name of the parameter passed to the constructor or setter method to the bean id.

In Constructor Injection, we can write - 

    @Autowired
    public DemoController(Coach cricketCoach) {
        this.coach = cricketCoach;
    }

In Setter injection we can write - 

    @Autowired
    public void getCoach(Coach cricketCoach) {
        this.coach = coach;
    }

So now, even if there are multiple implementations of "Coach" interface, Spring sees that the name of parameter is "cricketCoach" which means the dependency needed is of the class "CricketCoach". In this way, there is no need to use @Qualifier annotation in this case.
