Apart from the @Qualifier annotation, there is another annotation that we can use to decide which bean to inject when there are multiple beans available.

If we go back to the error message that we got in the console, this was the solution that was recommended - 

    Consider marking one of the beans as @Primary, updating the consumer to accept multiple beans, or using @Qualifier to identify the bean that should be consumed

So, as it says, we can make one of the beans as @Primary.

What will it do?

This annotation defines a preference when multiple beans of the same type are present. The bean associated with the @Primary annotation will be used unless otherwise indicated.

So, let's remove all the @Qualifier annotations from our DemoController and also rename the parameter back to "coach" so that Spring does not know which bean to inject.

Now, on any one of the classes that implement the Coach interface, we can add @Primary annotation.

    @Component
    @Primary
    public class CricketCoach implements Coach{
        @Override
        public String getDailyWorkout() {
            return "Practice fast bowling for 15 minutes";
        }
    }

What this now does is that, whenever Spring needs an implementation of "Coach" interface, even if there are more than one implementations, it sees that "CricketCoach" uses the @Primary annotation so this is the one that Spring chooses.

So, this annotation is useful when we want to specify which bean of a certain type should be injected by default.

This also means that we can have only "one" class using @Primary among all the same implementations.Otherwise, we will get an error saying "more than one primary beans found among candidates".

What if somewhere else, we want to inject the "BaseballCoach" and not the "CricketCoach"? 

If we require the other bean at some injection point, we would need to specifically indicate it. We can do that via the @Qualifier annotation.

So, if both @Qualifier and @Primary are present, which will get the preference?

If both the @Qualifier and @Primary annotations are present, then the @Qualifier annotation will have precedence. Basically, @Primary defines a default, while @Qualifier is very specific.

So, if we have @Primary on the "CricketCoach" class but in the DemoController, we have @Qualifier("baseballCoach"), then Spring will inject the object of "BaseballCoach" class, even though "CricketCoach" class has the @Priamry annotation. And it makes sense because we are specifically telling Spring to use the "BaseballCoach" class to inject this particular dependency so we are more specific when we use @Qualifier.

In general, @Qualifier is recommended as it is more specific and has the higher priority than @Primary.


