By default, when the Spring Boot application starts, all the beans are initialized as well. So, Spring will scan for all the classes that use the annotations like @Component, @Service etc.. and then creat an instance of each of them and make them available.

And we can see this in action if we add some print statements to the constructors of our beans (classes with @Component annotation).

    public BaseballCoach() {
        System.out.println("In Constructor: " + getClass().getSimpleName());
    }

    public CricketCoach() {
        System.out.println("In Constructor: " + getClass().getSimpleName());
    }
    
    public FootballCoach() {
        System.out.println("In Constructor: " + getClass().getSimpleName());
    }

And now, if we run the application, the console will print - 

    In Constructor: CricketCoach
    In Constructor: BaseballCoach
    In Constructor: FootballCoach

And as we know, the Constructor is always only called when an instance of the class is created. So it proves that Spring will create an instance of each of the beans and then make them available as soon as the application starts.

# LAZY INITIALITATION

As the name suggests, this is a way to lazily initialize a bean so that it is not immediately made available by Spring as soon as the application starts.

All we need to do to make any bean Lazily initialized is to use the @Lazy annotation on that class.

So, in our code, we see that in DemoController, we only need CricketCoach for now. So, it makes no sense to initialize the other two beans as soon as application starts. And so, we can initialize them lazily by adding @Lazy annotation to them.

    @Component
    @Lazy
    public class BaseballCoach implements Coach {}

    @Component
    @Lazy
    public class FootballCoach implements Coach {}

And now, if you run the application, you will see that the console will print - 

    In Constructor: CricketCoach

That's because the "CricketCoach" class does not have the @Lazy annotation, so it is initialized as soon as the application starts. On the other hand, the other two have @Lazy annotation so they will not be initialized until they are actually required.

# ANOTHER WAY

What if we want to enable lazy initialization for all the classes?

It is not the best way to go into every single class and keep adding @Lazy annotation to lazily load it. It would be so much better if we can globally enable lazy initialization. Well, we can do that using "application.properties" file.

We can add this line - 

    spring.main.lazy-initialization=true

Now, you will see that as soon as the application starts, we see nothing printed in the console. This makes sense because now, all the beans are lazily initialized, including our DemoController.

And it means that unless we do not go to any route that our DemoController handles, its bean won't be initialized and until it is not initialized, the dependencies will also not be initialized such as the "CricketCoach".

And you can see this in action if you visit the /dailyworkout route in the browser. You will see that now, we see in the console -

    In Constructor: CricketCoach

So it means, this CricketCoach bean was not initialized until it was actually needed.

For dependency resolution, Spring first creates an instances of CricketCoach and then it creates the instances of DemoController and injects the CricketCoach instance in it. You can see this if you add a print statement inside the DemoController constructor as well. 

Then, as soon as you visit /dailyworkout route, the console will print - 

    In Constructor: CricketCoach
    In Constructor: DemoController

And as the order says, the "CricketCoach" instance is created first and then the "DemoController" instance.

# ADVANTAGES & DISADVANTAGES OF LAZY INITIALIZATION

A good use case of Lazy Initialization is when the application connects to a database.

When dealing with a web application that connects to a database, lazy initialization can be beneficial. Not all pages or services may require database access, so postponing the creation of the database connection until needed can save resources.

There are two big advantages - 

    1. Reduced Startup Time: Lazy initialization can significantly improve application startup time, especially in large applications with numerous beans. By delaying the creation of non-essential beans until they are needed, you can reduce the initial overhead.

    2. Memory Optimization: Since not all beans are created during startup, memory consumption is reduced. This can be particularly advantageous in scenarios where some beans are resource-intensive.

Ofcourse nothing is perfect and in case of Lazy Initialization, there are some disadvantages - 

    1. Potential Delay: Since beans are only created when requested, there might be a slight delay when accessing a lazily initialized bean for the first time. This delay could affect application responsiveness in specific use cases.

    2. Complex Dependency Management: Care must be taken when using lazy initialization for beans with dependencies on other beans. Managing these dependencies correctly is crucial to avoid unexpected behavior.

So, the bottomline is that you should profile your application before you configure lazy initialization.