When we say "Scope", it means the lifecycle of a Bean and the visibility of it in the contexts we use it. So, things like "How long does the bean live?" or "How many instances of a bean are craeted" or "How is the bean shared?" etc. are all related to the "Scope" of a bean.

# SINGLETON SCOPE (DEFAULT)

By default, beans in Spring Boot have a "Singleton" scope. 

What that means is, the Spring Container will create only a single instance of that bean and all the requests for that bean will get the same object, which is cached. And this also means that any modification to the object will be reflected in all the references to the bean.

While this is the default scope, if we want to explicitly specify the scope of any bean, we just need to use the @Scope annotation and then pass it the scope as the value.

For example, in our code, we can write -

    @Component
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public class CricketCoach implements Coach{...}

So, here, the value "ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON" refers to the string "singleton". So, we could've also written - 

    @Component
    @Scope("singleton")
    public class CricketCoach implements Coach{...}

# PROTOTYPE SCOPE

If we have a specific requirement to always get a new instance of a bean whenever it is requested, we can explicitly set the scope of that bean as "prototype".

    @Component
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    public class CricketCoach implements Coach{...}

A bean with the prototype scope will return a different instance every time it is requested from the container. 

# ADDITIONAL SCOPES

Now, apart from the above two scopes, there are four additional scopes that are only available in a "web-aware" application context. We don't often use these.

## 1. REQUEST SCOPE

It creates a bean instance for a single HTTP request.

## 2. SESSION SCOPE

It creates a bean instance for an HTTP Session.

## 3. APPLICATION SCOPE

It creates a bean instance for the lifecycle of a "ServletContext".

## 4. WEBSOCKET SCOPE

It creates a bean instance for a particular WebSocket Session.

# CODING EXAMPLE

To actually see the Singleton and Prototype scopes in action, let's write some code.

In our "DemoController", we will now have two instances of "Coach" interface. And we specifically need two "CricketCoach" instances.

    private Coach coach;
    private Coach anotherCoach;

    @Autowired
    public DemoController(@Qualifier("cricketCoach") Coach coach, @Qualifier("cricketCoach") Coach anotherCoach) {
        System.out.println("In Constructor: " + getClass().getSimpleName());
        this.coach = coach;
        this.anotherCoach = anotherCoach;
    }

So, we have two class variables named "coach" and "anotherCoach", both getting an instance of "CricketCoach". This is our "CricketCoach" class - 

    @Component
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_SINGLETON)
    public class CricketCoach implements Coach{...}

As we can see, the scope is "singleton". And as we already understood, it means both the class varaibles should point to the same instance of "CricketCoach".

How can we see that?

Well, let's write a new Controller method that returns whether "coach is equal to anotherCoach". They can be equal only if they point to same instance.

    @GetMapping("/check")
    String check() {
        return "Comparing beans: coach == anotherCoach, " + (coach == anotherCoach);
    }

And after all this, now when we start the application, and go to "localhost:8080/check", we will see this in the browser - 

    Comparing beans: coach == anotherCoach, true

This means that both "coach" and "anotherCoach" variables are getting the same instance of "CricketCoach". And that's because the scope is "singleton".

Now, if we change the scope to "prototype" -

    @Component
    @Scope(ConfigurableBeanFactory.SCOPE_PROTOTYPE)
    public class CricketCoach implements Coach{...}

And restart the application, we will see that now, in the browser, we get -

    Comparing beans: coach == anotherCoach, false

This means now, the "coach" and "anotherCoach" variables point to two separate instances of "CricketCoach". And that's because the scope of "CricketCoach" is now "prototype" which means when a new instance if requested, a new instance of "CricketCoach" is created by the Spring Contrainer.


