So far, we have configured the beans using annotations such as @Component. But, there is another way to configure beans in Spring Boot and that's using a "Java-based configuration".

There is also XML-based configuration but that is not recommended anymore.

When we use Java-based configuration, then we have to explicitly create a "Configuration Class" which is then used by the Spring IOC Container as a source of the bean definitions. And this class should be annotated with @Configuration.

Now you can understand why we use the @SpringBootApplication annotation on the main Spring Boot class which is a combination of three annotations - @Configuration, @EnableAutoConfiguration, and @ComponentScan. Because if we do not explicitly define a configuration class, Spring Boot will use the main class as the configuration class in that case.

Once we have our configuration class created, we have to explicitly define methods for different beans and then annotate those methods with @Bean annotation. @Bean annotation tells Spring that a method annotated with @Bean will return an object that should be registered as a bean in the Spring application context. 

# STEP 1 - CREATING A CONFIGURATION CLASS

Let's create a new package named "config" and inside that, we will add a new class named "SportConfig" -

    @Configuration
    public class SportConfig {
    }

# STEP 2 - DEFINE @BEAN METHOD TO CONFIGURE THE BEAN

Now, let's have a bean method in this configuration file. Now, before that, let's create a new class named "TennisCoach" and this will be the class whose bean method we will create inside configuration class.

    public class TennisCoach implements Coach{
        public TennisCoach() {
            System.out.println("In Constructor: " + getClass().getSimpleName());
        }

        @Override
        public String getDailyWorkout() {
            return "Practice dribbling for 20 minutes!";
        }
    }

Now, note that we have not added the @Component annotation to this class because we want to create a bean definition method ourselves for this bean. Otherwise, Spring will automatically scan this class when the container starts.

Now, we can add a method inside the "SportConfig" class - 

    @Bean
    public Coach tennisCoach() {
        return new TennisCoach();
    }

What about the bean id? In case of "@Component" annotation, Spring will simply accept the class name as the bean id (with first letter lower-case). In this case, the bean id will be the sameas the method name. That is, "tennisCoach".

# STEP 3 -  INJECT THE BEAN AND UPDATE THE COMPONENT SCANNING

Let's now inject the bean inside DemoController.

    public DemoController(@Qualifier("tennisCoach") Coach coach, @Qualifier("cricketCoach") Coach anotherCoach) {
        System.out.println("In Constructor: " + getClass().getSimpleName());
        this.coach = coach;
        this.anotherCoach = anotherCoach;
    }

Note that we are passing "tennisCoach" inside the @Qualifier annotation this time which means "coach" variable will now point to an instance of "TennisCoach" class.

But, when we run the application and visit the /dailyworkout route, we get an error - 

    NoSuchBeanDefinitionException: No qualifying bean of type 'com.myapp.util.Coach' available: expected at least 1 bean which qualifies as autowire candidate. Dependency annotations: {@org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Qualifier("tennisCoach")}

But why?

Note that we have the "SportConfig" inside a new package that is not the default package as the main class and not the "util" package as well. It means, if we do not explicitly tell Spring to scan this package for beans and configurations, it will not be scanned. And you can see this if you run the application because it will throw an error.

    @SpringBootApplication(scanBasePackages = {"com.myapp.demo","com.myapp.util", "com.myapp.config"})

Now, the app will work without any errors.

# WHY NOT JUST ANNOTATE THE CLASS WITH @COMPONENT

You might think that why worry about creating a new config class and creating bean definitions ourselves when we can simply use @Component annotation?

Well, @Bean has its specific use cases. 

The most common one is when you want to wire components from third-party libraries. That is, you do not have the source code so you cannot annotation its class with @Component. In this case, you will have to use @Bean only.

So, if you own the source code, then you should use @Component as it requires no extra code to be written. But, if you even want to componentize other classes of which you do not have the source code, you have to use @Bean.

Now, when we say "you don't own the code", it simply means that we do not own the code of the libraries that our app depends on. But still, we know about the classes in those libraries. But ofcourse we cannot just go and add @Component annotation to those classes because we cannot edit those classes that the third-party libraries have.

So, when you want to use a third-party class as a Spring Bean, you have to use @Bean annotation.

# REAL-WORLD EXAMPLE

Let's say our project uses Amazon Web Services (AWS) and we use the "S3" service to store the documents.

Now, we want to use the AWS S3 Client as a Spring Bean in our project. The AWS S3 Client's code is a part of AWS SDK and ofcourse we cannot override or modify any source code of AWS SDK. This means we cannot simply go ahead and add @Component annotation to the AWS S3 Client.

But, we can configure it as a Spring bean using @Bean annotation.

This can be a simply bean definition method for the S3 Client - 

    @Bean
    public S3Client remoteClient() {

        ProfileCredentialsProvider credentialsProvider = ProfileCredentialsProvider.create();

        Region region = Region.US_EAST_1;

        S3Client s3Client = S3Client.builder()
                 .region(region)
                 .credentialsProvider(credentialsProvider)
                 .build();

        return s3Client;
    }

Here, the "ProfileCredentialsProvider", "Region" and "S3Client" are all classes provided by the AWS SDK.

So now, in any class that requires an S3 Client, we can simply inject the "S3Client" bean in that class and Spring will configure that bean based on the code we have written in the @Bean method and give us the object.
