So far, we have worked with a Spring MVC project which means in our Controller class, we returned the views. But most of the time, we work with Rest APIs in Spring Boot that return some data, not views.

So, how do we test such REST APIs in Spring Boot?

For that, in this section, we have a project wheer we have the same Student Grade Book app but it doesn't return views. It returns simple data in the controller.

Like before, we do not have tests yet so that's what we are going to write in this section.

# PROJECT OVERVIEW

If you open the "GradebookController" class then you will see that this class uses the @RestController annotation.

In our previous sections, the "GradebookController" had the @Controller annotation. 

The main difference between these two annotation is how they handle client's request and when they are used.

@Controller annotation is used to mark a class as a web controller to process HTTP requests and return a view name, which is then resolved by a view resolver to generate the final HTML view.

The @RestController annotation was added in later Spring version like Spring 3.4 to increase support for REST API development. In case of REST API, instead of returning HTML, you will probably like to return JSON or XML.

If you want to return a JSON or XML from a Spring MVC controller then you need to add @ReseponseBody annotation to each of Controller method and it seems overkill while implementing REST APIs using Spring and Spring Boot.

So, Spring Framework introduced the @RestController annotation which is a combination of @Controller and @RespondeBody annotations.

There is no change in the Model classes so we still have all the same classes that we had in previous sections.

Since we are no longer working with "views" in our Controller, whenever there is some invalid data then we "Throw" a custom exception named "StudentOrGradeNotFoundException" that we have defined in the "exceptionhandling" folder.

And inside the controller, we have written our "@ExceptionHandler" methods as well that take the thrown exception, convert it to a suitable object and then retunr that as the response of that particular API call.