So, let's write our first test.

We will testing the "GET" request to the "/" endpoint which gives us the List of students. The handler method in the Controller class is named "getStudents".

Since we are using @RestController annotation, this method will return a JSON array of students.

So, when we make a "localhost:1500/" request, then we get a JSON array.

Just like we did in Spring MVC Controller test, we will use the MockMvc to make a get request and then set the content type and other stuff and get the result back.

    mockMvc.perform(get("/"))
            .andExpect(status().isOk())
            .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8));

But now the question is, how do we verify the JSON response body?

How to access specific JSON element even for the nested elements? 

How to check the size of the JSON array?

Well, we can use "JsonPath" which lets you access elements of JSON. It is an open-source project. A really good thing is that Spring Boot Test starter automatically includes support for JsonPath.

When we work with JsonPath, we can use a dollar sign to reference the root element to the query - "$".

Let's say there is a property named "id" in the JSON response. Then we can access it using "$.id".

So, if we want to check the size of the JSON array, we can simply say -


    mockMvc.perform(get("/"))
            .andExpect(status().isOk())
            .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
            .andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(1)));

Note that "jsonPath" is imported like this - 

    import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultMatchers.jsonPath;

And the "hasSize" method is imported like this -

    import static org.hamcrest.Matchers.hasSize;

And now, if we run our test, this will pass because we are inserting exactly one student before each test in our Student table and so the JSON array will have only one entry and hence the size will be 1.

Let's try to add another student and then assert that size is 2.

    @Test
    public void getStudentsHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        CollegeStudent student = new CollegeStudent();
        student.setFirstname("John");
        student.setLastname("Doe");
        student.setEmailAddress("johndoe@gmail.com");

        studentRepository.save(student);

        mockMvc.perform(get("/"))
                .andExpect(status().isOk())
                .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(1)));

    }

And now the test fails because now, we added one more student in the test so there should be "2" students in the JSON array that we get.

So to make the test pass, we simply update the code to this - 

    andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(2)));