Now that we have seen how we can test a "GET" request, let's now try to write a test for the "POST" request that we make when we "CREATE" a new student and save it in the database.

We have this method in our controller - 

    @PostMapping(value = "/")
    public List<CollegeStudent> createStudent(@RequestBody CollegeStudent student) {

        studentService.createStudent(student.getFirstname(), student.getLastname(), student.getEmailAddress());
        return (List<CollegeStudent>) studentService.getGradebook();
    }

So here, we call the "createStudent" method of the service that will create a new student and save it in the database. And then, we simply return the updated list of students.

Now, there is one very important thing to note here. In our Controller, we are getting a "JSON" request that is then converted into a "CollegeStudent" object using @RequestBody annotation. In previous section where we used a Spring MVC Controller we had this POST request like this  -

    @PostMapping("/")
	public String createStudent(@ModelAttribute("student") CollegeStudent student, Model m) {...}

And that's why, in our test, we could use the .params method on the post request in our MockMvc.

If we try to do something like that in current controller's test -

    mockMvc.perform(
                post("/")
                        .contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8)
                        .param("firstName", "John")
                        .param("lastName", "Doe")
                        .param("emailAddress", "johndoe@gmail.com")
                ).andExpect(status().isOk()).andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(2)));

We will get a "400" status code. "400" means "Bad request", meaning the type of the request sent is not valid. And that makes sense because we actually want to send a "JSON" request. 

So, we have to create a JSON out of the Student, something like this - 

    {
        "firstName": "John",
        "lastName" : "Doe",
        "emailAddress" : "johndoe@gmail.com"
    }

So, how to do that?

Well, here, we can use the "Jackson" library. Jackson is one of the most used libraries of spring boot which translates JSON data to a Java POJO by itself and vice-versa. So, we can use one class from this library named "ObjectMapper" - 

    import com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.ObjectMapper;

    @Autowired
    private ObjectMapper objectMapper;

And then, in this class, we have a method named "writeValueAsString" which takes a JAVA object and then converts it to a JSON.

So, we can write - 

    mockMvc.perform(
                post("/")
                        .contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8)
                        .content(objectMapper.writeValueAsString(student))
        ).andExpect(status().isOk()).andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(2)));

And now, our test will pass!

So, let's also verify in this test that the student with email as "johndoe@gmail.com" is indeed present in the student table.

    CollegeStudent newStudent = studentRepository.findByEmailAddress("johndoe@gmail.com");
    assertNotNull(newStudent,"Student should be present in the database!");

And we are done! 

So, our final test method for Creating a student looks like this - 

    @Test
    public void createStudentHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {
        CollegeStudent student = new CollegeStudent();
        student.setFirstname("John");
        student.setLastname("Doe");
        student.setEmailAddress("johndoe@gmail.com");

        mockMvc.perform(
                post("/")
                        .contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8)
                        .content(objectMapper.writeValueAsString(student))
        ).andExpect(status().isOk()).andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(2)));

        CollegeStudent newStudent = studentRepository.findByEmailAddress("johndoe@gmail.com");
        assertNotNull(newStudent,"Student should be present in the database!");
    }