After GET and POST, let's test the "DELETE" request to delete a student from the databse.

This is the method that handles the DELETE request - 

    @DeleteMapping("/student/{id}")
    public List<CollegeStudent> deleteStudent(@PathVariable int id) {

        if (!studentService.checkIfStudentExists(id)) {
            throw new StudentOrGradeNotFoundException("Student or Grade was not found");
        }

        studentService.deleteStudent(id);
        return (List<CollegeStudent>) studentService.getGradebook();
    }

So, we make a delete call to "/student/{id}" endpoint so we do not send any data. We just pass the "id" in the endpoint itself.

This is pretty straightforward -

    @Test
    public void deleteStudentHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        assertTrue(studentRepository.findById(1).isPresent(), "Student should be present in the database before deletion");

        mockMvc.perform(delete("/student/{id}", 1))
                .andExpect(status().isOk())
                .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$", hasSize(0)));

        assertFalse(studentRepository.findById(1).isPresent(), "Student should not be present in the database after deletion");

    }

We did not have to do anything special here. All we do is first check that the student exists in the database with id as 1. Then, we make a "DELETE" request to the endpoint "/student/{id}" and pass the value for "id" as "1". 

We make sure that after making this request, there are no students left in the JSON array that we get in return. That's beacuse we only added one student before this test. So, when we delete that student, the JSON array will be empty.

And finally, we make sure to check that in the database, the student with id as 1 is no longer present.

# TESTING DELETION WHEN STUDENT ID IS NOT PRESENT

We know that if the student id is not present in the database and we try to delete that student, an exception will be thrown. So, how do we test that?

Since an exception is thrown, code in exception handler method will run which returns a status code of "4xx". So, we can test this status code in our test method.

    @Test
    public void deleteStudentWithInvalidIdHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        assertFalse(studentRepository.findById(123).isPresent(), "Student should not be present in the database before deletion");

        mockMvc.perform(delete("/student/{id}", 123))
                .andExpect(status().isNotFound());

    }

Since we know that in the Exception Handler method for "StudentOrGradeNotFoundException", we return a status of "NOT_FOUND", we can check that in our test method.

We can also catch all the "4xx" series status codes by doing - 

    mockMvc.perform(delete("/student/{id}", 123))
                .andExpect(status().is4xxClientError());

Since we know that we return a custom JSON response in case of an exception which as "status", "message" and "timestamp" fields, lets also test that.

We will get a response like this - 

    {
        "status": 404,
        "message": "Student or Grade was not found",
        "timeStamp": 13551325512
    }

So, we can again use "JsonPath" to access the values in this JSON response and verify them.

    mockMvc.perform(delete("/student/{id}", 123))
            .andExpect(status().is4xxClientError())
            .andExpect(jsonPath("$.status", is(404)))
            .andExpect(jsonPath("$.message", is("Student or Grade was not found")));

Note that "is" is imported from Hamcrest - 

    import static org.hamcrest.Matchers.is;