The last piece of the puzzle is to test the "DELETE" request for deleting grades.

This is the method in the controller which is called when we make a DELETE request for deleting a grade -


    @DeleteMapping("/grades/{id}/{gradeType}")
    public CollegeStudent deleteGrade(@PathVariable int id, @PathVariable String gradeType) {

        int studentId = studentService.deleteGrade(id, gradeType);

        if (studentId == 0) {
            throw new StudentOrGradeNotFoundException("Student or Grade was not found");
        }

        return studentService.getStudentInformation(studentId);
    }

So, we pass the "id" and the "gradeType" as the query parameters and then based on that, we delete the grade and then return the student information of the student for which the grade was deleted.

So, let's write a test for this.

    @Test
    public void deleteMathGradeHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        assertTrue(mathGradeRepository.findById(1).isPresent(), "A Math Grade with Id 1 should be present in the database before deletion");

        mockMvc.perform(
                        delete("/grades/{id}/{gradeType}", 1, "math")
                                .contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(status().isOk())
                .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.id", is(1)))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.firstname", is("Eric")))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.lastname", is("Roby")))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.emailAddress", is("ericroby@gmail.com")))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.mathGrades", hasSize(0)))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.scienceGrades", hasSize(1)))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.historyGrades", hasSize(1)));

        assertFalse(mathGradeRepository.findById(1).isPresent(), "A Math Grade with Id 1 should not be present in the database after deletion");
    }

So here, we fist check that a Math grade with id 1 exists in the database. And once we assert that, we will make a "DELETE" request to delete that grade.

And once that request is made, we will get the fresh student information in return and we can then verify that the size of the math grades array is not one less than before. Since initially the size was 1, it should now be 0.

And finally, we can also verify that the Math grade with id 1 should no longer exist in the database.

And we can do the same test with other type of grades like science or history.

# DELETING A GRADE WITH GRADE ID THAT DOES NOT EXIST

Now, let's write tests for invalid cases. First, we test the case when the passed grade id is invalid. That is, there is no grade that exists with the passed grade id.


    @Test
    public void deleteMathGradeWithInvalidGradeIdHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        assertFalse(mathGradeRepository.findById(123).isPresent(), "A Math Grade with Id 123 should not be present in the database before deletion");

        mockMvc.perform(
                        delete("/grades/{id}/{gradeType}", 123, "math")
                                .contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(status().is4xxClientError())
                .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.status", is(404)))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.message", is("Student or Grade was not found")));
    }

So, here we assert that a grade with id "123" is not present in teh database. And so, when we try to delete that grade, it will throw an exception and hence, we will get an Error response that we can verify using JsonPath.

# DELETING A GRADE WITH GRADE TYPE THAT DOES NOT EXIST

Similarly, we can write a test for making a delete request with an invalid grade type.

    @Test
    public void deleteMathGradeWithInvalidGradeTypeHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        assertTrue(mathGradeRepository.findById(1).isPresent(), "A Math Grade with Id 1 should be present in the database before deletion");

        mockMvc.perform(
                        delete("/grades/{id}/{gradeType}", 1, "geography")
                                .contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(status().is4xxClientError())
                .andExpect(content().contentType(APPLICATION_JSON_UTF8))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.status", is(404)))
                .andExpect(jsonPath("$.message", is("Student or Grade was not found")));
    }

Here, the grade with id "1" is present in the Math Grade table but there is no grade with a grade type as "grography". And so, this will also return an error response that we can verify using JsonPath.