In current section, we start with a "Student Grade Book" app that is already developed but it is not complete yet.

Our job is to add the remaining functionality to save the data in the database and then also add unit tests and integration tests.

This application will be used by an instructor to keep track of the grades for a student.

The grades are tracked for the "History", "Science" and "Math" subjects. The Instructor can add grades for a student for a specific subject.

Our app uses Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring MVC, ThymeLeaf views, CSS and Javascript.

This is a Spring MVC project so we have a Controller, Model and View.

We have one controller named "GradeBookController".

Under models, we have "CollegeStudent", "Grade", "Gradebook", "GradebookCollegeStudent", "HistoryGrade", "MathGrade", "ScienceGrade", "Student" and "StudentGrades" classes/interfaces.

Finally, under Views, we have "index.html", "studentInformation.html", error.html etc.

# MODEL CLASSES

We have an interface named "Grade" -

    public interface Grade {
        double getGrade();

        int getId();

        void setId(int id);

        int getStudentId();

        void setStudentId(int studentId);

        void setGrade(double grade);
    }

And then there are three classes that implement this interface - "HistoryGrade", "MathGrade", and "ScienceGrade". All these are Entity classes which means they will be mapped to the database tables.

Similarly, we have an interface named "Student" - 

    public interface Student {

        String studentInformation();

        String getFullName();
    }

And we have a class "CollegeStudent" that "implements" this interface. This is an "Entity" class, hence the @Entity annotation and all the other annotations in it.

And then there is a "GradeBookCollegeStudent" class that "extends" the "CollegeStudent" entity class. This "GradeBookCollegeStudent" class has a reference to the "StudentGrades".

Finally, we have two classes named "GradeBook" and "StudentGrades". "GradeBook" is basically the collection of students, hence it has a variable that keeps the "List" of "GradeBookCollegeStudent" objects. 

The "StudentGrades" class keep track of the list of grades for all subjects and has various methods to do things like finding GPA, setting grades, etc.

# CODE THAT WE WILL WRITE

Currently, the app does not store any information in the database.

We will add the DAO database support and a service class.

During the development, we will also add unit tests and integration tests.