Now, what if we want to add some rows to our table only for this test? We do not want to do this for each test. So, we cannot add any rows in the @BeforeEach method.

How do we do it?

Well, we can create a new sql file which has the SQL query we want to be executed for this specific test.

We will have this .sql file in the "resources" folder (not the resources folder of "main" but of the "test" directory) - 

Let's call it "insertData.sql" -

    insert into student(id, firstname, lastname, email_address)
    values
        (11, 'Student', 'One', 'studentone@gmail.com'),
        (12, 'Student', 'Two', 'studenttwo@gmail.com'),
        (13, 'Student', 'Three', 'studentthree@gmail.com'),
        (14, 'Student', 'Four', 'studentfour@gmail.com');

And now, for our "getGradebookService()" test, we can use an annotation on this method named "@Sql" and pass the path of this .sql file as input - 

    @Test
    @Sql("/insertData.sql")
    public void getGradebookService() {
        Iterable<CollegeStudent> iterableCollegeStudent = studentService.getGradebook();

        List<CollegeStudent> studentList = new ArrayList<>();

        iterableCollegeStudent.forEach(studentList::add);

        assertEquals(5, studentList.size(), "Only one student should be present in the database table");

    }

And now, you will see that our test will pass because now, we have five total rows in our database table.

That's because one row is added using @BeforeEach and the rest four rows are added using the query in the sql file.

If you are wondering whether @BeforeEach runs first or @Sql, then note that @BeforeEach will execute first. Then, @Sql will execute.