So far, we just have a basic configuration but we can do better. What if we want to restrict specific urls and only users with a specific role can access those urls.

We have endpoints to fetch a list of employees and also to get the details of a single employee. We want these endpoints to be accessible only by users that have "EMPLOYEE" role.

But, for the "/api/employees" endpoint where we make a POST requst to create a new user, that is something only a "MANAGER" should be able to do. The same with the "PUT" request.

Finally, if we want to "DELETE" an employee, only an "ADMIN" can do that action. Hence, we should restrict the DELETE endpoint to only "ADMIN" users.

So, now with all this decided, let's see how can we implement this in code.

# GENERAL SYNTAX TO RESTRICT ACCESS

The general syntax is something like this - 

    requestMatchers("Here we add path to match")
        .hasRole("The authorized role")

But, if you notice, the path can be same but the HTTP Method can change right?

This means, if we simply restrict the path "/api/employees" for a MANAGER, then the "EMPLOYEE" user cannot access it as well because this is the same path that is used for "GET" requests as well.

So, we can also specify the path in "requestMatchers" method - 

    requestMatchers("HTTP METHOD to Match", "Path to Match")
        .hasRole("The authorized role")

Now, the "hasRole" can only take one role as input. Not multiple. Ofcourse that won't be a valid scenario because we want the "GET" requests to be accessible for all types of roles in our project, whether it is "EMPLOYEE" or "MANAGER" or "ADMIN".

So, to provide multiple roles, we can instead use "hasAnyRole" method that takes a list of authorized roles as input.

    requestMatchers("HTTP METHOD to Match", "Path to Match")
        .hasAnyRole("A comma-delimited list of authorized roles")

# AUTHORIZE REQUESTS FOR 'EMPLOYEE' ROLE

So, how to authorize requests for 'EMPLOYEE' role?

We want the "/api/employee" and the "/api/employees/{id}" endpoints to be accessible by users with role as "EMPLOYEE".

So, we can say -

    requestMatchers(HttpMethod.GET, "/api/employees").hasRole("EMPLOYEE")

    requestMatchers(HttpMethod.GET, "/api/employees/**").hasRole("EMPLOYEE")

Note the double asterisk "**" in the second method. That means match anything that comes after "/api/employees/"

# AUTHORIZE REQUESTS FOR 'MANAGER' ROLE

Similarly, lets see how the code will look like for a "MANAGER" role. We want the users that are "MANAGERS" to be able to access "/api/employees" endpoint and make PUT and POST requests. 

    requestMatchers(HttpMethod.POST, "/api/employees").hasRole("MANAGER")

    requestMatchers(HttpMethod.PUT, "/api/employees/**").hasRole("MANAGER")

# AUTHORIZE REQUESTS FOR 'ADMIN' ROLE

Finally, we want the "ADMIN" to be able to access the "/api/employees" endpoint and make the "DELETE" requests.

    requestMatchers(HttpMethod.DELETE, "/api/employees/**").hasRole("ADMIN")

# PUTTING ALL TOGETHER

In our configuration class, we need to define a new "Bean" method that returns a "SecurityFilterChain" instance.

Remember what "Security Filter Chains" are? We can add or remove them based on what we need for our application.

    @Bean
    public SecurityFilterChain filterChain(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception{

        http.authorizeHttpRequests(configurer ->
                configurer
                        .requestMatchers(HttpMethod.GET, "/api/employees").hasRole("EMPLOYEE")
                        .requestMatchers(HttpMethod.GET, "/api/employees/**").hasRole("EMPLOYEE")
                        .requestMatchers(HttpMethod.POST, "/api/employees").hasRole("MANAGER")
                        .requestMatchers(HttpMethod.PUT, "/api/employees/**").hasRole("MANAGER")
                        .requestMatchers(HttpMethod.DELETE, "/api/employees/**").hasRole("ADMIN")
        );

        // Enable basic authentication
        http.httpBasic(Customizer.withDefaults());

        // Disable CSRF
        http.csrf(AbstractHttpConfigurer::disable);

        return http.build();
    }

Now, if you run the app and try to make a "POST" or "PUT" or "DELETE" request using a user that is just an "EMPLOYEE", you should get 403 Forbidden in Postman.

Similarly, you will get the same status code if you try to make a "DELETE" request with a user who is "MANAGER". Because only "ADMIN" can do that.

# CSRF

Spring Security can protect against Cross-Site Request Forgery or CSRF attacks. This attack tricks a user into accidentally using their credentials to invoke a state changing activity like transferring funds from their account, chanding their email address and passwords or some other action.

In Spring MVC applications, Spring will add a "CSRF" token to each generated view and this token must be submitted to the server on every HTTP request that modifies the state (PATCH, PUT, POST, or DELETE).

If you are building a REST API for non-browser clients, then you may want to disable CSRF protection. Spring documentation says - 

    Our recommendation is to use CSRF protection for any request that could be processed by a browser by normal users. If you are only creating a service that is used by non-browser clients, you will likely want to disable CSRF protection.

In our case, since we will be making the POST PUT DELETE and GET calls using Postman and it is not a browser client, we can disable it.

To disable, in our configuration file where we defined the role based url access, we can add - 

    http.csrf(csrf -> csrf.disable())