So far, we have hardcoded the users in our source code and we did that just to keep things simple. But, in a real application, the users data is actually located in a database and so, we should add our users to a database as well.

Out of the box, Spring Security can read user account information from the database. The only important thing is to make sure you follow the predefined Spring Security's table Schemas.

So, if you have a table that follows Spring Security's table schema, then you do not have to worry about writing code yourselves to get the data from the database using JDBC. Spring Security will do that automatically.

Ofcourse there are times when you want the table schemas to be specific to your project and they may not be the same as Spring Security's predefined table schemas. In that case, you will be responsible to write the code to access the data from the database.

# STEP 1 - CREATE THE SQL SCRIPT TO SET UP DATABASE TABLES

So, what is this default database schema that Spring Security has?

Well, you need to have two tables named "users" and "authorities".

The "users" table will have three columns - 

    username
    password
    enabled

The "authorities" table will have two columns - 

    username
    authority

Note that "authorities" is loosely the same thing as "roles".

So, for "users" table, this will be our MySQL Script -

    CREATE TABLE users (
        username VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
        password VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
        enabled TINYINT NOT NULL,
        PRIMARY KEY (username)
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

And once we are done, we can then insert the users into this table like this - 

    INSERT INTO users
    VALUES 
    ('john', '{noop}test123', 1),
    ('mary', '{noop}test123', 1),
    ('susan', '{noop}test123', 1);

Similarly, we will create a table named "authorities" like this - 

    CREATE TABLE authorities (
        username VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
        authority VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

        UNIQUE KEY authorities_idx_1 (username, authority),

        CONSTRAINT authorities_ibfk_1
        FOREIGN KEY (username)
        REFERENCES users(username)
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

This is how we will insert data into this table - 

    INSERT INTO authorities
    VALUES
    ('john', 'ROLE_EMPLOYEE'),
    ('mary', 'ROLE_EMPLOYEE'),
    ('mary', 'ROLE_MANAGER'),
    ('susan', 'ROLE_EMPLOYEE'),
    ('susan', 'ROLE_MANAGER'),
    ('susan', 'ROLE_ADMIN')

Under the hood, Spring Boot will use the "ROLE_" prefix to get the user roles.

# STEP 2 - ADD DATABASE SUPPORT TO MAVEN POM FILE

Next step is something we have already done before. That's to configure our Spring Boot project to connect to the database. And for that, we first need to add a dependency for the "MySQL Connector" in pom.xml file.

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.mysql</groupId>
        <artifactId>mysql-connector-j</artifactId>
        <scope>runtime</scope>
    </dependency>

And then we add properties in the application.properties file to connect to the database.

    spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/employee_directory
    spring.datasource.username=test
    spring.datasource.password=test

# STEP 3 - UPDATE SPRING SECURITY TO USE JDBC

Finally, we need to tweak our configuration file to tell Spring Security to use JDBC. 

Recall that so far, this is how our Spring Security's configuration class has defined the users - 

    public InMemoryUserDetailsManager userDetailsManager() {
        UserDetails john = User.builder()
                .username("john")
                .password("{noop}test123")
                .roles("EMPLOYEE")
                .build();

        UserDetails mary = User.builder()
                .username("mary")
                .password("{noop}test123")
                .roles("EMPLOYEE", "MANAGER")
                .build();

        UserDetails susan = User.builder()
                .username("susan")
                .password("{noop}test123")
                .roles("EMPLOYEE", "MANAGER", "ADMIN")
                .build();

        return new InMemoryUserDetailsManager(john, mary, susan);
    }

We do not want to use an in-memory database anymore for users. We want to use our MySQL database instead.

So, we will remove this Bean method and instead, define a new Bean method that returns an instance of "JdbcUserDetailsManager" instead of "InMemoryUserDetailsManager".


    @Bean
    public JdbcUserDetailsManager userDetailsManager(DataSource dataSource) {
        return new JdbcUserDetailsManager(dataSource);
    }

And that's all! If all was done properly, now the application should work the same way as it was doing before. The only difference is that the users are now present in a database table and not hardcoded in our source code.

If you want to confirm if the application is indeed picking the user data from database, try changing the password for any user in the database and try to use the old password in postman. If it give 401 Unauthorized, that means Spring Security is indeed looking at the database and fetching data from our tables.

Another useful thing about database is that we do not have to restart our application even if we make some change in our database tables. Because the Spring Security will look at the database tables for each request.


