So far, we have used the default Spring Security Database Schema in our project which means we had to create tables with the exact table names and column names that are predefined by Spring Security. In many cases, this is not what we want. We want to have our custom tables and based on them, we want Spring Security to get the user data.

Because we may also want to have more columns in our "users" table that store more information about that user.

So, for custom tables, we have to tell Spring how to query our custom tables and we have to explicitly provide the query to find the user by user name and find the authorities or roles by the user name.

# STEP 1 - CREATE OUR CUSTOM TABLES WITH SQL

So, the very first step is to create custom tables that are not same as what Spring Security defines.

Let's say we want one "members" table with these three columns - 

    user_id
    password
    active

We will create it using this script - 

    CREATE TABLE members (
        user_id VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
        password VARCHAR(68) NOT NULL,
        active TINYINT NOT NULL,
        PRIMARY KEY (user_id)
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

And let's say we want a "roles" table with these two columns - 

    user_id
    role

The SQL script will be - 

    CREATE TABLE roles (
        user_id VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
        role VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

        UNIQUE KEY authorities_idx_2 (user_id, role),

        CONSTRAINT authorities_ibfk_2
        FOREIGN KEY (user_id)
        REFERENCES members(user_id)

    ) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

And now, we can insert data into these tables, just as we did previously.

First, we insert data in the "members" table - 

    INSERT INTO members
    VALUES 
    ("john", "{bcrypt}$2a$10$1/VX5iEHisoNZan8qfzJhe0gzcYB6MeYus.6I/tkqslY3BIXM6FwS", 1),
    ("mary", "{bcrypt}$2a$10$1/VX5iEHisoNZan8qfzJhe0gzcYB6MeYus.6I/tkqslY3BIXM6FwS", 1),
    ("susan", "{bcrypt}$2a$10$1/VX5iEHisoNZan8qfzJhe0gzcYB6MeYus.6I/tkqslY3BIXM6FwS", 1);

And then, in the "roles" table - 

    INSERT INTO roles
    VALUES
    ("john", "ROLE_EMPLOYEE"),
    ("mary", "ROLE_EMPLOYEE"),
    ("mary", "ROLE_MANAGER"),
    ("susan", "ROLE_EMPLOYEE"),
    ("susan", "ROLE_MANAGER"),
    ("susan", "ROLE_ADMIN");


# STEP 2 - UPDATE SPRING SECURITY CONFIGURATION

Now that we are using custom tables, we have to tell Spring Security how to fetch the user details and authorities. And for that, we have to tweak our Bean method that we had added before to the config file.

    @Bean
    public JdbcUserDetailsManager userDetailsManager(DataSource dataSource) {
        JdbcUserDetailsManager jdbcUserDetailsManager = new JdbcUserDetailsManager(dataSource);

        jdbcUserDetailsManager.setUsersByUsernameQuery("SELECT user_id, password, active FROM members WHERE user_id=?");
        jdbcUserDetailsManager.setAuthoritiesByUsernameQuery("SELECT user_id, role FROM roles WHERE user_id=?");
        
        return jdbcUserDetailsManager;

    }

So, all we had to do was add two extra lines of code where we specify the exact queries using which Spring Security will get the user details and authority details from our custom "members" and "roles" tables in the database.

Note that our queries contain question mark "?" for the user_id. This is a placeholder which will be replaced by the user_id passed during login.

And we are done!

And how do you verify that Spring Security is indeed fetching data from our custom tables? For that, we can use "test1234" instead of "test123" as the password (bcrypt encrypted one). In this way, if custom tables are used, password should be "test1234", otherwise it should be "test123" for predefined tables.