What if we want to use Spring Security to authenticate against a database using Spring Data JPA?

We started with an in-memory authentication and then we moved on to the JDBC Authentication. And for both of these, Spring Security has a built-in mechanism and that is why we had to write such a little code in our Security configuration file.

But, when it comes to talking to a database using JPA, there is no built-in mechanism for that in Spring Security. So, we have to write some extra code in our configuration file in this case.

First, run the SQL query file that is attached in this project named "spring-security-jpa-hibernate.sql". This will do all the creation and insertion in the tables.

To avoid any confusions, remove all the previous tables from the "employee_directory" that are related to Spring Security (except "employees" table).

# ENTITY CLASSES FOR USER AND ROLE

Next up, we need to define two new entity classes that define the "user" and "role" tables in the database.

First, we have the "User" entity class - 

    @Entity
@Table(name = "user")
public class User {

    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
    @Column(name = "id")
    private Long id;

    @Column(name = "username")
    private String userName;

    @Column(name = "password")
    private String password;

    @Column(name = "enabled")
    private boolean enabled;

    @ManyToMany(fetch = FetchType.EAGER, cascade = CascadeType.ALL)
    @JoinTable(name = "users_roles",
            joinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "user_id"),
            inverseJoinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "role_id"))
    private Collection<Role> roles;

    ... GETTER SETTERS AND CONSTRUCTORS...
    }

Don't worry about this @ManyToMany annotation at the moment as we will get to know about this later.

Next, we define the Entity class for "Role".

    @Entity
    @Table(name = "role")
    public class Role {

        @Id
        @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
        @Column(name = "id") 
        private Long id;

        @Column(name = "name")
        private String name;

    ... GETTER SETTERS AND CONSTRUCTORS...
    }

# USER REPOSITORY INTERFACE

Next up, we need to define a DAO or Repository interface that will actually talk to the database and get the user data.

Our UserRepository is like this - 

    public interface UserRepository extends JpaRepository<User, Long> {
        User findByUserName(String userName);
    }

Remember that we discussed three different ways to writing custom queries in JPA. And one of them was the method name. In the above code, the method name is "findByUserName" and so, Spring Data JPA will automatically convert it into an SQL query.

# SERVICE CLASS

Next, we need to define a Service Interface and an Impl class for the User.

The UserService Interface will have no method because all it will do is to extend the "UserDetailsService" interface.

The "UserDetailsService" is the core interface that loads user-specific data and it is used throughout the framework as a user DAO. The only method that it has is "loadUserByUsername" which locates the user based on the username.

UserDetailsService is used by "DaoAuthenticationProvider" for retrieving a username, a password, and other attributes for authenticating with a username and password. Spring Security provides in-memory, JDBC, and caching implementations of UserDetailsService.

And since in our case we want a custom authentication, we have to expose a custom "UserDetailsService" as a bean.

That's why in "UserService", we have to extend the "UserDetailsService" so that Spring Security finds this as the custom "UserDetailsService" in our application when it scans for the classes annotated with @Component or @Service or @Controller etc.

This is the UserService interface - 

    public interface UserService extends UserDetailsService {}

The Service class will be injected with the UserRepository instance.


    @Service
    public class UserServiceImpl implements UserService {

        private final UserRepository userRepository;

        @Autowired
        public UserServiceImpl(UserRepository userRepository) {
            this.userRepository = userRepository;
        }

        @Override
        public UserDetails loadUserByUsername(String userName) throws UsernameNotFoundException {
            User user = userRepository.findByUserName(userName);

            if (null == user) {
                throw new UsernameNotFoundException("Invalid username or password.");
            }

            return new org.springframework.security.core.userdetails.User(user.getUserName(), user.getPassword(), mapRolesToAuthorities(user.getRoles()));

        }

        private Collection<? extends GrantedAuthority> mapRolesToAuthorities(Collection<Role> roles) {
            return roles.stream().map(role -> new SimpleGrantedAuthority(role.getName())).collect(Collectors.toList());
        }
    }


Note that we have to implement the "loadUserByUsername" method because that's the method that "UserDetailsService" interface defines. And since our "UserService" extends that interface, we also have to define that method whenever we implement the "UserService". The "mapRolesToAuthorities" method is simply giving us a list of all the roles (EMPLOYEE, MANAGER, and ADMIN in our case).

# SECURITY CONFIGURATION

And finally, we have the most important step which is to configure the Spring Security to do the authentication using JPA / Hibernate.

We have to tell Spring Security two things - 

    What is the password Encoder?
    What is the service that will give us the user details?

And for that, we first define a new Bean method for the password encoder. This method will give us the BcryptPasswordEncoder instance.

    @Bean
    public BCryptPasswordEncoder passwordEncoder() {
        return new BCryptPasswordEncoder();
    }

And next, we need to tell Spring Security about our custom UserService. For that, we define a Bean method of type "DaoAuthenticationProvider".

"DaoAuthenticationProvider" is an AuthenticationProvider implementation that uses a "UserDetailsService" and "PasswordEncoder" to authenticate a username and password.

    @Bean
    public DaoAuthenticationProvider authenticationProvider(UserService userService) {
        DaoAuthenticationProvider auth = new DaoAuthenticationProvider();

        auth.setUserDetailsService(userService);
        auth.setPasswordEncoder(passwordEncoder());

        return auth;
    }

So, in this method, we tell Spring Security about the "UserDetailsService" and the "PasswordEncoder" to use.

And well, that's it! Now, if everything is all good, you can use the application in the same way as before. Just note that the sql script adds the users with password as "test12345". Make sure you are using this password when making api calls. If you want your own, then update the password in the database.

Also note that the data table does not contain {bcrypt} in front of the password. That's because we are explicitly telling Spring Boot now that the password encoder is "Bcrypt" so, we do not have to add {bcrypt} in front of password when we store it in the database.