HTTP stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol. As the name suggests, it is a "protocol" that is used for communication, usually used to communicate with internet resources or any application with a web browser client.

REST is an approach that leverages the HTTP protocol. So, it leverages the common HTTP methods for the CRUD operations.

# HTTP METHODS

These are the nine HTTP methods typically associated with RESTful web development and the Hypertext Transfer Protocol and most commonly used by RESTful API designers -

    1. GET
    2. PUT
    3. POST
    4. DELETE
    5. PATCH
    6. HEAD
    7. OPTIONS
    8. TRACE
    9. CONNECT

## 1. GET

This is the most commonly used HTTP method. As the name suggests, it is used to simply retrieve the data from the server. So, you can request anything such as a webpage or HTML file, an image or video, a JSON document, a CSS file or JS file, an XML file etc.

The GET request method is said to be a "SAFE" operation which means it should not change the state of any resource on the server.

## 2. POST

This method sends data to the server for processing.

The data sent is typically one of the following types - 

    - Input fields from online forms
    - XML or JSON data
    - Text data from query parameters

Unlike "GET", the "POST" operation is not said to be a "SAFE" operation because it has the power to update the state of the server and can cause potential side-effets to the server's state when executed.

The HTTP POST method is not required to be idempotent either, which means it can leave data and resources on the server in a different state each time it is invoked.

## 3. PUT

The HTTP PUT method is used to completely replace a resource identified with a given URL.

If a resource exists at the URL provided by a PUT operation, the resource’s representation is completely replaced. If a resource does not exist at that URL, a new resource is created.

The payload of a PUT operation can be anything that the server understands, although JSON and XML are the most common data exchange formats for RESTful webservices and microservices.

The "PUT" operation is not a "SAFE" operation because they change the state of the resource on the server. But, they are "IDEMPOTENT" because multiple invokations leave the server in the same state.

For example, if a "PUT" operation sets the status of a flight to "ontime", that operation could be invoked 100 times and the status would always end up being "ontime". That’s the idea behind "idempotence".

## 4. DELETE

The HTTP "DELETE" method is self-explanatory. After execution, the resource a "DELETE" operation points to is removed from the server.

As with "PUT" operations, the HTTP "DELETE" method is idempotent and unsafe.

## 5. PATCH

Sometimes object representations get very large. The requirement for a PUT operation to always send a complete resource representation to the server is wasteful if only a small change is needed to a large resource.

The PATH HTTP method allows for updates of existing resources. It is significantly more efficient, for example, to send a small payload rather than a complete resource representation to the server.

## 6. HEAD

The HTTP "HEAD" method simply returns the metadata about a resource on the server. 

This HTTP request method returns all of the headers associated with a resource at a given URL, but does not actually return the resource.

HEAD just gives back the header of the request, but without body data. Imagine you send a GET for a large file, GET will start to download instantly. With HEAD, you can check the size, before you send a GET request, so you can make decisions before start an operation.

It is commonly used to check the following conditions - 

    - Size of the resource on the server
    - If the resource exists on the server or not
    - The last-modified date of the resource
    - Validity of a cached resource on the server

For example, the below data is returned by a HEAD request - 

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
    Date: Fri, 19 Aug 2023 12:00:00 GMT 
    Content-Type: text/html 
    Content-Length: 1234 
    Last-Modified: Thu, 18 Aug 2023 15:30:00 GMT


## 7. OPTIONS

The server does not have to support every HTTP method for every resource it manages.

Some resources support the PUT and POST operations. Other resources only support GET operations.

The HTTP OPTIONS method returns a listing of which HTTP methods are supported and allowed.

The following is a sample response to an HTTP OPTIONS method call to a server:

    OPTIONS /example/resource HTTP/1.1 
    Host: www.example.com HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
    Allow: GET, POST, DELETE, HEAD, OPTIONS 
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: * 
    Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, DELETE, OPTIONS 
    Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Authorization, Content-Type

## 8. TRACE

The TRACE HTTP method is used for diagnostics, debugging and troubleshooting. It simply returns a diagnostic trace that logs data from the request-response cycle.

The content of a trace is often just an echo back from the server of the various request headers that the client sent.

The HTTP TRACE request method is used to determine what changes, if any, are made between the client and server in the HTTP request chain. It is useful for debugging routing errors. This HTTP method is safe and idempotent but not cacheable.

## 9. CONNECT

The connect operation is used to create a connection with a server-side resource. The most common target of the HTTP method CONNECT is a proxy server, which a client must access to tunnel out of the local network.

RESTful API designers rarely interact with the CONNECT HTTP request method.

# HTTP REQUEST MESSAGE

An HTTP Request Message typically consists of three parts - 

    1. Request Line
    2. Header Variables
    3. Message Body

The Request Line is the HTTP command.

The Header variables have the request metadata.

Finally, the Message Body has the content of the message or the payload.

For example, an HTTP Request Message can look like this - 

    GET /doc/test.html HTTP/1.1 <- THIS IS THE REQUEST LINE
    Host: www.test101.com
    Accept: image/gif, image/jpeg, */*
    Accept-Language: en-us
    Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
    User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0
    Content-Length: 35

    bookId=12345&auther=Tan+Ah+Teck <- THIS IS THE MESSAGE BODY

In above example, everything between the Request Line and the Message Body are the Header variables.

# HTTP RESPONSE MESSAGE

Just like the HTTP Request Message, the Response Message consists of three parts - 

    1. Response Line
    2. Header variables
    3. Message body

The Response Line has the server protocol and the status code.

The Header variables have the response metadata.

The Message Body has the actual message.

For example, an HTTP Response Message can look like this - 

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK <- THIS IS THE RESPONSE LINE
    Date: Sun, 08 Geb xxxx 01:11:12 GMT
    Server: Apache/1.3.29 (Win32)
    Last-Modified: Sat, 07 Feb xxxx
    ETag: "0-23-4024c3a5"
    Accept-Ranges: bytes
    Content-Length: 35
    Connection: close
    Content-Type: text/html

    <h1> My Home Page </h1> <- THIS IS THE MESSAGE BODY

In above example, everything between the Response Line and the Message Body are the Header variables.

# HTTP STATUS CODES

One important information is the status code. There are various status codes that we get back from the server. Here is how they are classified - 

    100-199 -> INFORMATIONAL
    200-299 -> SUCCESSFUL
    300-399 -> REDIRECTION
    400-499 -> CLIENT ERROR
    500-599 -> SERVER ERROR

# MIME CONTENT TYPES

A MIME type is a label used to identify a type of data. It is used so software can know how to handle the data. It serves the same purpose on the Internet that file extensions do.

MIME stands for "Multipurpose Internet Mail-Extension".

A MIME type has two parts: a type and a subtype. They are separated by a slash (/). For example, the MIME type for Microsoft Word files is application and the subtype is msword. Together, the complete MIME type is "application/msword".

So if a server says "This is text/html" the client can go "Ah, this is an HTML document, I can render that internally", while if the server says "This is application/pdf" the client can go "Ah, I need to launch the PDF Reader plugin that the user has installed and that has registered itself as the application/pdf handler."

Here are the common MIME TYPES -> https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types




