To understand what we mean by "Path Variables", let's say we have this endpoint - 

    /api/students/1

This endpoint should return the details of the student with an id of "1".

Now, how do we define this endpoint in our Rest Controller? Well, that's pretty simple, we just define it like this -

    @GetMapping("/students/1)
    public Student getStudentWithId1(){...}

Okay, so what if we want to have endpoints for all our students? For example "api/students/2", "api/students/3" and so on...

Should we keep on adding new @GetMapping methods in our Rest Controller? That's a terrible idea!

What if we have a single endpoint that can handle all such requests?

Do you recall how in JPA we could pass parameters in our queries to avoid hardcoding? What if we can do something like that in REST as well?

For example, what id we have an endpoint like this in our Rest Controller -

    api/students/:id

And this ":id" is a dynamic part that handles all the requests with various "id" values.

Well, as it turns out, that's something we can do in Spring Boot Rest Controller.

We can define a variable in the endpoint by enclosing it inside curly brackets.

    @GetMapping("/students/{id})

And now, this "id" is something we can extract and use in our method to fetch the specific student. And to extract it, we use @PathVariable annotation.

    @GetMapping("/student/{id})
    public Student getStudent(@PathVariable int id) {
        ...
    }

Note how the name of the parameter is "id" and so is the name of the variable in the endpoint.

Does it mean that we cannot have a different paramter name? NO. We can have a different parameter name but in that case, we have to explicitly tell Spring Boot that this is the parameter to which we want to bind the value of our Path variable.

    @GetMapping("/student/{id})
    public Student getStudent(@PathVariable("id") int studentId) {
        ...
    }

So, we can pass the actual value inside @PathVariable as an argument and in this way, Spring Boot will take the "id" value from the endpoint, and attach it with "studentId" parameter.

Depending on the use case, we can have more than one path variable in our request URI for a controller method, which also has multiple method parameters:

    @GetMapping("/api/students/{id}/{name}")
    public String getStudentsByIdAndName(@PathVariable int id, @PathVariable String name) {...}

# OPTIONAL PATH VARIABLES

We can also set the @PathVariable as optional by passing the "required" attribute and setting it to false.

    @GetMapping("/student/{id})
    public Student getStudent(@PathVariable(value="id", required=false) int studentId) {
        ...
    }

Another way is to use the "Optional" type.

    @GetMapping("/student/{id})
    public Student getStudent(@PathVariable(value="id") Optional<int> studentId) {
        ...
    }

# LET'S CODE

Finally, let's code everything we learned so far.

First, let's create the "students" list once when the @RestController bean is loaded. And if you recall, we can use @PostContruct annotation for this.

    public class StudentRestController {

        private List<Student> students;

        
        @PostConstruct
        public void loadData() {
            students = new ArrayList<>();

            students.add(new Student("John", "Doe"));
            students.add(new Student("James", "Cook"));
            students.add(new Student("Robb", "Stark"));
        }
        ....

    }

Next, we can define a new endpoint to get the student by the id. For now, let's consider id as simply the index of the list.

    @GetMapping("/students/{studentId}")
    public Student getStudentById(@PathVariable(value = "studentId") int id) {
        return students.get(id);
    }

And we are done!


