What if we try to go to "localhost:8080/api/students/1000"?

We see that we get an error page. And the error that we see in the terminal says - 

    Index 1000 out of bounds for length 3

And it makes sense because our list of students only have three students so the only valid "id" values are 0, 1, and 2. Anything above that will throw an error.

The error is not the actual issue, though. The issue is that we are not properly handling this. If the student with an id "1000" is not present in the list, we should maybe tell the client that there is no user present with this id, instead of showing the entire exception on the browser.

We should handle the exception and return this error as a JSON so that UI can do something with that. For now, UI cannot do anything because nothing is returned by the server as the application simply stops due to this exception.

We can have maybe a simple JSON response for an error that contains the status code, the message and maybe also the timestamp. For example - 

    {
        "status": 404,
        "message": "Student id not found - 9999",
        "timeStamp": 15261496
    }

So, we need an "Exception Handler" in our application that takes the thrown exception from the REST service and handles it properly.

# DEVELOPMENT PROCESS

Here is how we will code everything around Exception Handling.

## STEP 1 - CREATE A CUSTOM ERROR RESPONSE CLASS

First, we will create a custom Error Response Class because this will be sent back to the client as a JSON. So, we will define a POJO and let Jackson take care of converting the response to JSON.

    public class StudentErrorResponse {

        private int status;
        private String message;
        private long timestamp;

        .... GETTERS, SETTERS AND CONSTRUCTORS...
    }

## STEP 2 - CREATE A CUSTOM EXCEPTION

Next, we will create a custom Student Exception class that will be used whenever we want to throw an exception if we cannot find a student. Let's call it "StudentNotFoundException".

    public class StudentNotFoundException extends RuntimeException {

        public StudentNotFoundException(Throwable cause) {
            super(cause);
        }

        public StudentNotFoundException(String message, Throwable cause) {
            super(message, cause);
        }

        public StudentNotFoundException(String message) {
            super(message);
        }
    }

Notice that we are calling "super()" inside the constructors of "StudentNotFoundException". This means that we are actually making a call to the constructor of the "RuntimeException" class and passing the error message/cause that we pass into the "StudentNotFoundException" class constructor.

## STEP 3 - THROW THE EXCEPTION IF STUDENT IS NOT FOUND

We can now use this Exception class to throw a new Exception.

We want the "id" to be a valid id. If it is not a valid id, we throw an exception.

    @GetMapping("/students/{studentId}")
    public Student getStudentById(@PathVariable(value = "studentId") int id) {
        if (id >= students.size() || id < 0) {
            throw new StudentNotFoundException("Student id not found - " + id);
        }
        return students.get(id);
    }

But wait, there is still a missing link here.

Remember that we said we will have an "Exception Handler" which will take the thrown exception from the Rest Controller and then return a POJO which will be converted back into JSON by Jackson.

So, that's what missing right now.

## STEP 4 - ADD EXCEPTION HANDLER METHOD

The Exception Handler Methods in Spring Boot are annotated with the @ExceptionHandler annotation. These methods return a "ResponseEntity" which is a wrapper for the HTTP Response object. And this "ResponseEntity" provides a fine-grained control to specify things like - 

    - Http Status Code
    - Http Headers
    - Http Response Body

So, let's create a new method in our REST Controller class itself and annotate it with @ExceptionHandler.

    @ExceptionHandler
    public ResponseEntity<StudentErrorResponse> handleException(StudentNotFoundException e) {
        StudentErrorResponse error = new StudentErrorResponse();

        error.setStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND.value());
        error.setMessage(e.getMessage());
        error.setTimestamp(System.currentTimeMillis());

        return new ResponseEntity<>(error, HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND);
    }

So, the @ExceptionHandler annotation is telling that this method is an Exception Handler Method. The type of the Response Body is "StudentErrorResponse" and the type of Exception that this method handles/catches is the "StudentNotFoundException".

This means, any "StudentNotFoundException" thrown in this controller will be catched and handled by this one method. And this method has one job which is to take that exception, create a new "StudentErrorResponse" object and return it by wrapping it around a ResponseEntity.

And finally, to check if everything works fine, we can again go to the same URL that was throwing an error before - "localhost:8080/api/students/1000".

And we see that this time, the application does not stop. We simply see this in the browser - 

    {
        "status": 404,
        "message": "Student id not found - 1000",
        "timestamp": 1721135379613
    }

# EDGE CASES

So far, everything looks fine. 

But, just try to give the "id" as a string - 

    localhost:8080/api/students/abcd

And now, our application will fail again and we will again see the "Whitelabel Error Page". And the error is - 

    org.springframework.web.method.annotation.MethodArgumentTypeMismatchException: Failed to convert value of type 'java.lang.String' to required type 'int'; For input string: "asdadad"

It makes sense because in our Rest Controller, we have a method that handles all the routes for "/api/students/{id}" but we have specified the type of "id" as "int". And when we go to "/api/students/abcd", then Spring tries to convert "abcd" to an integer which is not a valid conversion and hence the Exception gets thrown.

So, we should really have something that handles such general exceptions as well because these are some exceptions that can frequently be thrown due to the code we have written.

# MODIFYING THE CODE TO HANDLE GENERIC EXCEPTIONS

So, we want to have an Exception Handler that will handle all the generic exceptions that are thrown by our Rest Controller. And as you might have guessed, we will use @ExceptionHandler annotation again.

    @ExceptionHandler
    public ResponseEntity<StudentErrorResponse> handleGenericExceptions(Exception e) {
        StudentErrorResponse error = new StudentErrorResponse();

        error.setStatus(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST.value());
        error.setMessage(e.getMessage());
        error.setTimestamp(System.currentTimeMillis());

        return new ResponseEntity<>(error, HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST);
    }

Note that this time, we have added the type of parameter as "Exception" which means this method will handle all the exceptions thrown by this Controller, except the "StudentNotFoundException".

You may also think... Does the order of methods matter? That is, what if we define a method for handling generic exceptions before we define a method to handle "StudentNotFoundException"?

Well, that does not matter. No matter what the order is, Spring will always call the specific method that we have written to handle a specific Exception. If it does not find any such method, then it uses the method that handles all the exceptions.

# SOME POINTS ABOUT @EXCEPTIONHANDLER ANNOTATION

The @ExceptionHandler annotation, like all other annotations, can accept some attributes. And it makes this annotation a really powerful annotation for handling exceptions.

We can actually define a single method that can handle multiple types of Exceptions.

For this, we have to paass an array of Exception classes into the @ExceptionHandler annotation. These are all the exceptions that should be handled by this one method.

    @ExceptionHandler({NullPointerException.class, ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException.class, IOException.class})
    public ResponseEntity<...> handleException(Exception ex) {...}

So, this one method above will handle all the exceptions that fall under "NullPointerException", "ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException", and "IOException".

Even if we only handle one type of Exception, it is generally a good idea to mention that exception class in this annotation, for readability.

    @ExceptionHandler(StudentNotFoundException.class)
    public ResponseEntity<StudentErrorResponse> handleException(StudentNotFoundException e) {...}

Now, as we saw, even if we do not explicitly specify the exception type inside @ExceptionHandler, it will use the "types" that are listed as teh method arguments to know for what types of exceptions this method should be called.