Now that we are done with the setup part, let's start with creating a DAO or "Data Access Object" for our project. This will be a class that is responsible to actually connect with the database.

Remember that these are the tasks we should be able to do -

    - Get a list of employees
    - Get a single employee by id
    - Add a new employee
    - Update an employee
    - Delete an employee

So, let's use the standard JPA API and build a DAO layer for this.

Like before, we will have an Interface for our DAO which is then implemented by our "DAOImpl" class.

# UPDATING DB CONFIGS IN APPLICATION.PROPERTIES

Before we start with our DAO, remember that Spring Boot has no idea about the "Employee" database that we have setup. So, we need to tell Spring Boot about it and we do that by adding some properties to the application.properties file.

    spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/employee_directory
    spring.datasource.username=test
    spring.datasource.password=test

So, with these added, Spring Boot will now create DataSource and EntityManager beans that we can use to connect to the database.

# CREATING AN ENTITY CLASS

Next, we will create an Entity Class named "Employee" which represents the data in the "Employee" table in our database.

    @Entity
    @Table(name = "employee")
    public class Employee {

        // Fields
        @Id
        @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
        @Column(name = "id")
        private int id;

        @Column(name = "first_name")
        private String firstName;

        @Column(name = "last_name")
        private String lastName;

        @Column(name = "email")
        private String email;

        // Constructors

        // No Argument Constructor (required by JPA)
        public Employee() {}
    ....
    }

Pretty basic stuff that we have already done before.

# CREATING A DAO INTERFACE

Finally, we can start with creating the interface for our DAO.

    public interface EmployeeDAO {

        // Get a list of all the employees
        List<Employee> findAll();
    }

For now, let's just have a single method in it.

# CREATING A DAO IMPLEMENTATION CLASS

Next, we need to create a class that implements this interface.

    @Repository
    public class EmployeeDAOJpaImpl implements EmployeeDAO{
        
        // Entity Manager
        private EntityManager entityManager;
        
        @Autowired
        public EmployeeDAOJpaImpl(EntityManager entityManager) {
            this.entityManager = entityManager;
        }

        @Override
        public List<Employee> findAll() {
            return null;
        }
    }

Note that we have annotated the "DAOImpl" class with the @Repository annotation.

Recall that if we use the @Repository annotation on a DAOImpl class, Spring will automatically register the DAO implementation, thanks to component-scanning.

Another important thing that this annotation does is that it provides translation of any JDBC related exceptions.

We are also injecting the "EntityManager" into this class using Constructor Injection because this is a "required" dependency so Constructor Injection is the best in this case.

# IMPLEMENTING THE METHOD TO GET A LIST OF ALL THE EMPLOYEES

Finally, let's also define our method that fetches the list of employees from the DB.

    @Override
    public List<Employee> findAll() {

        // Create a Query
        TypedQuery<Employee> query = entityManager.createQuery("FROM Employee", Employee.class);

        // Return the result list
        return query.getResultList();
    }

And boom. We are done with creating the basic structure of our DAO interface and DAOImpl class.