The final step is to add the Controller methods that use the Service methods to find, add, update and delete the Employees.

Before that, let's also add an Exception Handler to handle exceptions in case Employee is not found in the database.

As we did earlier, we will first define an exception class - 

        public class EmployeeNotFoundException extends RuntimeException{
        public EmployeeNotFoundException(String message) {
            super(message);
        }

        public EmployeeNotFoundException(String message, Throwable cause) {
            super(message, cause);
        }

        public EmployeeNotFoundException(Throwable cause) {
            super(cause);
        }
    }

Then, we will define an Error Response class - 

    public class EmployeeErrorResponse {

        private int status;
        private String message;
        private long timestamp;

        // GETTERS. SETTERS and CONSTRUCTORS

    }

Finally, we will define an Exception Handler - 

    @RestControllerAdvice
    public class EmployeeExceptionHandler {


        @ExceptionHandler(EmployeeNotFoundException.class)
        @ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)
        public EmployeeErrorResponse handleEmployeeNotFoundException(EmployeeNotFoundException e) {
            EmployeeErrorResponse error = new EmployeeErrorResponse();

            error.setStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND.value());
            error.setMessage(e.getMessage());
            error.setTimestamp(System.currentTimeMillis());

            return error;
        }

    }

This is a global exception handler, not bound to a specific controller.

# READING A SINGLE EMPLOYEE

When the user makes a GET request to the "/api/employees/{id}" endpoint, we have to find that employee and return it back as response.

So, let us add a new handler method for this endpoint.


    @GetMapping("/employees/{id}")
    public Employee getEmployeeById(@PathVariable(value = "id") int id) {
        Employee employee = employeeService.findById(id);

        if (null == employee) {
            throw new EmployeeNotFoundException("Employee id not found: " + id);
        }

        return employee;
    }

So, we simply extract the value of the Path variable "id" into our method parameter and then pass the id value to our employee service that will give us the data.

If the employee is not found, we simply throw our custom "EmployeeNotFoundException" and rest is taken care by our Exception Handler.

# ADDING A NEW EMPLOYEE

Now, let's add a new endpoint that takes care of adding a new employee to the database. The endpoint will be "/api/employees" and the HTTP Post method will be used.

    @PostMapping("/employees")
    public Employee addNewEmployee(@RequestBody Employee employee) {
        return employeeService.save(employee);
    }

Note that we are using @RequestBody annotation which will take the data in the POST request and convert it to an "Employee" object that we can then pass to our service method.


# UPDATING AN EXISTING EMPLOYEE

For updating an existing employee (or adding a new one if the employee doesn't already exist), we can use PUT method.

    @PutMapping("/employees")
    public Employee updateEmployee(@RequestBody Employee employee) {
        // Call the service method to update the employee
        return employeeService.save(employee);
    }

In this case, if the user makes a PUT request without specifying an ID or specifies an id that does not exist, then a new ROW will be added to the table. Otherwise, if the user specifies an id that already exists, then that row will be updated.

# DELETING AN EMPLOYEE

Finally, let's add the functionality to delete an existing employee.

    @DeleteMapping("/employees/{id}")
    public String deleteEmployee(@PathVariable(value = "id") int id) {

        // Find the employee with the specific id
        Employee employee = employeeService.findById(id);

        // If the employee does not exist with the passed id, then throw an exception
        if (null == employee) {
            throw new EmployeeNotFoundException("Employee id not found: " + id);
        }

        // Call the service method to delete the employee
        employeeService.delete(employee);

        return "Employee with id " + id + " deleted!";
    }