So far, in our project, we have used the standard JPA API for our DAO which means we used the "EntityManager" to do various operations in the database.

Spring framework provides an abstraction layer over the JPA named "Spring Data JPA". And so, we have all the features of JPA, plus the ease of development.

Before "Spring Data JPA", developers had to write a lot of boilerplate code to create a DAO for basic functionalities. Spring helps to significantly reduce this amount of code by providing minimal interfaces and actual implementations.

In our project, we saw that we had to create a DAO Interface and then also a DAO Implementation class for the Employee entity. What if we need to create a DAO for another entity? 

Let's say we have to create DAO classes for Customer, Student, Product, Book etc.

Do we have to repeat all the same code, again?

Because if you think about it, most of the code will remain the same. The only change will be the Entity classes and maybe the primary keys.

For example, if we have this method for Employee entity - 

    @Override
    public Employee findById(int id) {
        return entityManager.find(Employee.class, id);
    }

For another entity, let's say "Student", all that is going to change is the Entity class.

    @Override
    public Student findById(int id) {
        return entityManager.find(Student.class, id);
    }

And this is just one example. In this way, we will have multiple methods that will remain the same across different entities so it makes no sense to duplicate the code again and again.

What if we could tell Spring to create a "DAO" for us and then all we need to tell is the Entity type and the Primary Key. And in this way, what if Spring gives us all the basic CRUD methods for free?

Well, the solution is "Spring Data JPA" because this does exactly that!

All we need to do is create a DAO interface and then just tell Spring about the Entity class and the primary key. No need to have a DAO implementation class for all the methods.

Spring will then give us the CRUD implementaiton for free!

# THE REPOSITORY INTERFACES

To start leveraging the Spring Data programming model with JPA, a DAO interface needs to extend the JPA specific Repository interface, "JpaRepository". This will enable Spring Data to find this interface and automatically create an implementation for it.

By extending the interface, we get the most relevant CRUD methods for standard data access available in a standard DAO.

This "JpaRepository" interface exposes methods such as findAll(), findById(), save(), deleteById() and others. So, we do not need to provide implementations for all these because they are provided by this interface.