Now that we know what "Spring Data JPA" is, let's add it to our project and start using it.

There are only two steps

    - Extend the JpaRepository Interface
    - Use the Repository in our app

# STEP 1 - EXTEND JPAREPOSITORY INTERFACE

The first step is to extend the "JpaRepository" interface from our DAO interface.

So, let's create a new repository interface just so that we can have the interface which was using the standard JPA API and also the one that uses the Spring Data JPA. In this way, we will be able to see how much reduction of code is there.

When we work with Spring Data JPA, we usually name our interfaces as - "Entity name + Repository". For example, "EmployeeRepository".

    public interface EmployeeRepository extends     JpaRepository<Employee, Integer> {}

So, as we can see, all we have to do is extend the "JpaRepository" interface and provide the data about what the entity class is and what is the type of the primary key. And that's pretty much it.

We do not need an "EmployeeRepositoryImpl" class here because all the basic CRUD methods are already provided by this "JpaRepository" interface.

Moreover, it is not necessary to put the "@Repository" annotation on interfaces that extend "JpaRepository". Spring recognises the repositories by the fact that they extend one of the predefined Repository interfaces.

# STEP 2  - USE THE INTERFACE IN OUR APP

Now, all that's left is to use this "EmployeeRepository" interface instead of the "EmployeeDAO" in our app.

So, our EmployeeServiceImpl will now use "EmployeeRepository" instead of "EmployeeDAO" - 

    @Service
    public class EmployeeServiceImpl implements EmployeeService{
        private final EmployeeRepository employeeRepository;

        @Autowired
        public EmployeeServiceImpl(EmployeeRepository employeeRepository) {
            this.employeeRepository = employeeRepository;
        }

        @Override
        public List<Employee> findAll() {
            return employeeRepository.findAll();
        }

        @Override
        public Employee findById(int id) {
            Optional<Employee> optional = employeeRepository.findById(id);
            
            return optional.orElse(null);
        }

        @Override
        public Employee save(Employee employee) {
            return employeeRepository.save(employee);
        }

        @Override
        public void delete(Employee employee) {
            employeeRepository.delete(employee);
        }
    }

So, you can see that before, we had two files for the DAO, one being the interface and the other being the implementation of the methods of the interface.

We also do not have to use @Transactional annotation in the service impl class if we are using Spring Data JPA Repository.

Now, after using Spring Data JPA, we just have one file for the interface and in that as well, we just have one line of code which is to define the interface and extend the "JpaRepository" interface.

Ofcourse you will think that what about complex queries? In standard JPA API, we could write complex queries using JPQL / HQL. What about Spring Data JPA?

Well, Spring Data JPA provides features for extending and adding custom queries with JPQL. Also, you are not restricted from defining custom methods in our Repository Interface.
