When we used the standard JPA API, we could use the "createQuery" method and write some complex SQL queries. How do we do that in Spring Data JPA because as we know, when we use Spring Data JPA repository, we remove the Impl class completely. So, if we do not have an Impl class, how to define custom queries?


# THE @QUERY ANNOTATION

Spring Data provides many ways to define a query that we can execute. One of these is the "@Query" annotation.

In order to define SQL to execute for a Spring Data repository method, we can annotate the method with the @Query annotation — its value attribute contains the JPQL or SQL to execute.

For example, if we have our "EmployeeRepository" and we want to have a method that will find an Employee by the first name, then there is no built-in implementation provided by JPARepository for this.

So, we have to write custom query for this.

And we can do that using @Query annotation.

So, in our "EmployeeRepository" class, we have to add a new custom method and annotate it with @Query annotation -

    public interface EmployeeRepository extends JpaRepository<Employee, Integer> {

        @Query("SELECT e FROM Employee e WHERE firstName = ?1")
        Employee findByFirstName(String firstName);
    }

Notice that since the "firstName" will be passed in this query from outside, we will bind it with the method parameter using "?1". Spring Data will pass method parameters to the query in the same order they appear in the method declaration.

Now, we need to define a new method in our service that uses this method -

    @Override
    public Employee findByFirstName(String firstName) {
        return employeeRepository.findByFirstName(firstName);
    }

And finally, we need to expose an endpoint in our controller - 

    @GetMapping("employees/{firstName}")
    public Employee findByFirstName(@PathVariable(value = "firstName") String firstName){
        return employeeService.findByFirstName(firstName);
    }

Now, if we make a get request to a route like "http://localhost:8080/api/employees/Yuri", this will extract the value "Yuri" as the "firstName" and then pass this to the service method which in turn passes it to the repository method and that in turn passed it to the JPQL query. And in this way, our custom query will be executed with the dynamic data.

JPA also allows direct execution of native SQL queries so you can use all the database-specific features at the cost of portability.

All we need to do to write native SQL queries instead of JPQL is to use the "native" attribute in @Query annotation and set it to true.


    @Query(value = "SELECT * FROM employee WHERE first_name = ?1", nativeQuery = true)
    Employee findByFirstName(String firstName);

Note that since it is a native SQL query, we no longer refer to the Entity class. Instead, we write the name of the actual table (employee). The column name is also "first_name" and not "firstName".

That's what it means when we say "Native Query"

## ANOTHER WAY TO PASS DYNAMIC VALUES IN THE CUSTOM QUERIES

In the above example, we saw how we can pass dynamic data by simply letting Spring Boot take the data in the same order as the method parameters. But, sometimes, we want to have a more fine-grain control over the dynamic values. So, in tha case we can use the @Param annotation to specify exactly which method parameter will bind to a specific value in the query.

    @Query(value = "SELECT * FROM employee WHERE first_name = :firstName", nativeQuery = true)
    Employee findByFirstName(@Param("firstName") String firstName);

Note that we have ":firstName" which is like a placeholder in the query and this is replaced by whatever value is passed to the method. We bind the two using the @Param annotation.

You can omit the "@Param" annotation if the method parameter has the same name as the placeholder. But usually, it is a good approach to explicitly add the "@Param" annotation.

# @NAMEDQUERY ANNOTATION

There is another way to define custom queries in Spring Data JPA. That's using @NamedQuery annotation. The difference is that @Query is used to define the query right above the method in the Repository Interface.

On the other hand, @NamedQuery is defined at the Entity level. The "NamedQuery" queries are statically checked at application startup, potentially catching errors early.

@NamedQuery typically uses JPQL and is part of JPA standard.

So, let's implement the same example using NamedQuery.

In our "Entity" class, we have to add the custom query when we use @NamedQuery.

The @NamedQuery annotation takes two values. First is the name of method in the Repository interface that wil use this query, and the second value is the actual query.

    @Entity
    @Table(name = "employee")
    @NamedQuery(name = "Employee.findByFirstName",query = "SELECT e FROM Employee e WHERE firstName = :firstName")
    public class Employee {...}

Note the "name" attribute. Its value is "Employee.findByFirstName". It is very important that in the Repository interface, we define a method with the same name "findByFirstName". Only then Spring will know that this named query is what it needs to run when "findByFirstName" method of repository is called.

So, the repository simple has this code now - 

    public interface EmployeeRepository extends JpaRepository<Employee, Integer> {
        Employee findByFirstName(@Param("firstName") String firstName);
    }

What if we want to use Native SQL queries using named query? Well, for that, instead of an attribute in @NamedQuery, we have another annotation named @NamedNativeQuery. The only difference is that when we use this annotation, we also ahve to pass an attribute named "resultClass" using which Spring converts the data it retrieves from the database to a specific object of a specific class (Entity class in our case).

    @NamedNativeQuery(name = "Employee.findByFirstName",query = "SELECT * FROM employee WHERE first_name = :firstName", resultClass = Employee.class)
    public class Employee {...}

# DEFINING CUSTOM QUERIES USING METHOD NAME

Another interesting way to have custom queries is to simply have method names in a specific way so that Spring will simply convert the method name to a specific query behind the scenes.

Since we want to find an employee by the first name, all we need to do is define a method that is named "findByFirstName".

    @RepositoryRestResource(path = "members")
    public interface EmployeeRepository extends JpaRepository<Employee, Integer> {

        Employee findByFirstName(String firstName);
    }

Let's also remove/comment any @NamedQuery that we have in Employee entity class as we won't use that.

And now, if we re-run and go to "http://localhost:8080/api/employees/Yuri", you will see that it works just as it was workign before.

That's because, under the hood, based on the method name, Spring  translates it into this -> "select e from Employee e where e.firstName = ?1".

There is actually an entire list of keywords that you should use in the method name so that Spring then convert the method name into a specific query behind the scenes.

For example, if you want to fetch distict values, you have to use "Distinct" keyword after "find". e.g. findDistinctByLastnameAndFirstname. This method is translated into following JPQL - "select distinct …​ where x.lastname = ?1 and x.firstname = ?2"

Here is the official documentation on this - https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jpa/reference/jpa/query-methods.html#jpa.query-methods.query-creation

Although getting a query derived from the method name is quite convenient, one might face the situation in which either the method name parser does not support the keyword one wants to use or the method name would get unnecessarily ugly. So you can either use JPA named queries or rather annotate your query method with @Query.

# WHEN TO USE WHAT?

Use @Query when you need flexibility and dynamic queries that might change at runtime, or you are heavily using Spring Data features.

Use NamedQuery when you have a static query that won't change and you want to ensure the query is valid at application startup.