Earlier, we saw the magic of "Spring Data JPA" which provides an abstraction layer on top of JPA. This helps eliminate a lot of the boilerplate code.

There is also something called "Spring Data REST" which is built on top of the Spring Data project and it makes it easy to build REST web services that connect to Spring Data Repositories. It takes away a lot of the manual work usually associated with such tasks and makes implementing basic CRUD functionality for web applications quite simple.

It solves the same problem that we had in case of DAO Implementations.

What if we have to create a REST API for more entities? We will be just duplicating a lot of code in our controller classes because most of the stuff will remain the same.

What if we tell Spring to create a REST API for us and use our existing JpaRepository and give us all the basic REST API CRUD features for free.

The solution is "Spring Data REST"!

Spring Data Rest will expose these endpoints for free when we tell it about our Entity class and the primary key - 

    POST /employees : Create a new Employee
    GET /employees : Read a list of Employees
    GET /employees/{employeeId}: Read a single Employee
    PUT /employees/{employeeId}: Update an existing Employee
    DELETE /employees/{employeeId}: Delete an existing employee

# HOW DOES IT WORK?

Spring Data REST will scan your project for the "JpaRepository". It will then expose REST APIs for each entity type for your "JpaRepository". 

By default, Spring Data REST will create endpoints based on the entity type. It will use a Simple "Pluralized" form with the first character of entity in lowercase.

For example if the entity is "Employee", endpoints will start with "/employees".

# DEVELOPMENT STEPS

So, how do we use Spring Data REST in our project?

First, we have to add the dependency for Spring Data REST in our pom.xml file.

And well, that's pretty much it! There is no coding required!

    <dependency>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-rest</artifactId>
	</dependency>

So, for Spring Data REST, you just need three items - 

    1. Entity Class
    2. JpaRepository
    3. Maven POM dependency for 'spring-boot-starter-data-rest'

And since Spring Data REST provides us all the basic endpoints, we do not need any Service or ServiceImpl classes anymore. And not even a controller. So, we can delete all the controller and service files safely.

To verify that everything works after you delete the files and re run teh app, just go to the endpoints and try making the requests to add, remove, update the employees. It should all work fine as before.

The only change is that while previously we were making requests to /api/employees, we will now make requests to /employees directly.

Spring Data REST provides some advanced features like - 

    - Pagination, Sorting and Searching
    - Extending and adding custom queries with JPQL
    - Query Domain Specific Language (Query DSL)

# HATEOAS

The Spring Data REST endpoints are "HATEOAS" compliant. "HATEOAS" stands for "Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State". With the use of HATEOAS, the client-side needs minimal knowledge about how to interact with a server.

HATEOAS is one of the constraints of the REST architecture style, and it means that hypertext should be used to find your way through the API.

Think of this as a meta-data for REST data.

The Spring Data REST responses make use of "HATEOAS". For example, the response for GET /employees/3 will look like - 

    {
        "firstName": "John",
        "lastName": "Doe",
        "email": "jogn@google.com",
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "http://localhost:8080/employees/3"
            },
            "employee": {
                "href": "http://localhost:8080/employees/3"
            }
        }
    }

So, on top, we have the data for the employee and on the bottom, we have the Response meta-data.

If we make a request to get a list of employees, then the meta-data will include things like the page size, total elements, pages and so on.

HATEOAS uses the "Hypertext Application Language" or "HAL" data format.

# CUSTOMIZING OUR ENDPOINT'S BASE PATH

What if we still want the endpoints to start with "/api/employees"? 

Well, we can do that by adding a property in our application.properties file.

    spring.data.rest.base-path=/api

And now, if we re-run the app, we will now be able to access the endpoints starting with "/api/employees", just as before.

One thing that is different versus our previous implementation is that when we use the "PUT" mehtod to update an employee, we have to pass the id as a parameter in the endpoint, not in the body.

So, if we want to update an employee with id as 4, we will make a PUT request to "/api/emplouees/4".

# NOTE

From all this, you can understand one thing. Spring Data REST is not useful for all the cases.

If we have additional requirements such as complex business logic, custom controllers and services then we should not use Spring Data REST. Instead, we should manually create the custom controllers and services.

Only if you need to quickly expose a CRUD REST API, then you should use it.