Spring Data REST does not handle complex pluralized forms. For example, what if the Entity is "Goose". We do not want the endpoint to be "gooses". We want it to se "geese".

In this case, we need to specify a plural name.

Moreover, what if for our "Employee" entity, we actually want a different name for the endpoints. Maybe "/members".

How to configure all that?

We can specify the plural name or the path with an annotation on the Repository interface. This annotation is "@RepositoryRestResource".

Let's say we want the endpoint to start with "members" not with "employees". So, we will write -

    @RepositoryRestResource(path = "members")
    public interface EmployeeRepository extends JpaRepository<Employee, Integer> {}

And now, all our API calls will start with "/api/members" instead of "/api/employees".

# PAGINATION

Spring Data REST returns the first 20 elements. So, the page size is 20.

And we can navigate to different pages of data using query parameters.

For example - 

    /employess?page=0
    /employees?page=1
    ...

There are various properties available for us to use in the application.properties file to configure Spring Data Rest. For example - 

    spring.data.rest.base-path -> To set the basepath for endpoints
    spring.data.rest.default-page-size -> Default size of pages
    spring.data.rest.max-page-size -> Maximum size of pages

# SORTING

You can sort data using the property names of your entity.

For example, in our Employee entity class, we have "firstName", "lastName", and "email".

Just as in case of Pagination, we can use query parameters to sort the data using a specific property.

For example, if we want to sort by last name, we can say -

    /employees/?sort=lastName

By default, the order is "Ascending".

If we want to sort in "Descending" order, we have to write - 

    /employees/?sort=lastName,desc

What if we want to sort by lastName and if two people have same last name, we want to sort by firstName in ascending order?

    /employees/?sort=lastName,firstName,asc