What exactly is a "pointcut"?

Well, it is a predicate expression for "where" the advice should be applied.

Spring AOP uses the AspectJ's pointcut expression language.

A pointcut expression starts with a pointcut designator (PCD), which is a keyword telling Spring AOP what to match. 

There are several pointcut designators, such as the execution of a method, type, method arguments, or annotations.

The most common one is "execution", which matches the 'method execution' join points. And this is what we have seen so far in our code.

When we write - 

    "execution(public void addAccount())"

It means match the execution of the "addAccount()" method, doesn't matter in what class this method is called because we have not specifically provided by specific class or package.

The syntax is like this - 

    execution(modifiers-pattern? return-type-pattern declaring-type-pattern? method-name-pattern(param-pattern) throws-pattern?)

Note that "?" means this pattern is optional. So, the "modifiers-pattern", "declaring-type-pattern" and "throws-pattern" are all optional.

    "modifiers-pattern" -> public, protected and (default/node: package-visible)

    "return-type-pattern" -> can be any datatype - void, boolean, String and so on

    "declaring-type-pattern" -> The class name

    "method-name-pattern" -> The method name

    "param-pattern" -> The method parameters

    "throws-pattern" -> Match on a method that throws a given expression

# EXAMPLES

Let's say we want to match the "addAccount()" method that is inside the "AccountDAO" class. We do not want to match the "addAccount()" method of any other class. In that case, we will write -

    "execution(public void com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.addAccount())"

What if we want to match any "addAccount()" method that returns nothng and has a "public" modifier -

    "execution(public void addAccount())"

So now, it is not restricted to a specific class.

We can also use wildcards "*". So, for example, we want to match methods that start with "add" in any class. So, they can be "addAccount", "addUsers" and so on.

    "execution(public void add*())"

Note that here after "add", we added an asterisk which means any "public" method that starts with "add" and returns "void" will be matched.

We can also use wildcards on return types. So, let's match all the methods named "addAccount" and we do not care whether they return something or not.

    "execution(public * addAccount())"

Moreover, since we know that "modifier" is optional, we can also write -

    "execution(* addAccount())"

And now, this means to match all the "addAccount()" methods with any return type. Not that "*" here does not mean any modifier because if it meant that, we would have to also provide something for the return-type pattern because that is not optional.

# MATCHING ON METHOD PARAMETERS

Let's also see how we can write pointcut expressions that match of method parameters.

For the "param-pattern", we have three choices - 

1. () -> THIS MATCHES A METHOD WITH NO ARGUMENTS
2. (*) -> THIS MATCHES A METHOD WITH ONE ARGUMENT OF ANY TYPE
3. (..) -> THIS MATCHES A METHOD WITH 0 OR MORE ARGUMENTS OF ANY TYPE

Suppose, we want to match any "addAccount" method with "NO" arguments. So, we will write - 

    "execution(* addAccount())"

Suppose, we want to match the "addAccount" method that takes one parameter of type "Account". So, we will write - 

    "execution(* addAccount(com.example.aopdemo.Account))"

Note that we have to provide the fully qualified class name of the "Account" class.

What if we want to match "addAccount" methods with any number of arguments? We will write -

    "execution(* addAccount(..))"

# MATCHING ON PACKAGE

We can also apply advices on specific packages.

For example. we want to match any method in our "dao" package -> com.example.aopdemo.dao

So, we will write - 

    "execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.*(..))"

Here, note that the return type is "*" which means it can be any return type.

Then, we have - 

    com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.*

It means, any class and any method in that class in the "dao" package. So basically, it matches every single method in the "dao" package.

And for arguments, we write (..) which means 0 or more arguments.