So far, we have seen how we can write pointcut expressions so that we can let Spring AOP know exactly where to apply the specific advice.

But most of the time, we do not have just one advice to apply on a specific joinpoint. For example, what if apart from logging, we also have to do some security check before a method is executed? For that, we will have a separate advice. So, will we be writing the same pointcut expression again for that advice? It is not a good approach.

So, how can we "reuse" a pointcut expression? We want to apply one pointcut expression to multiple pointcut expressions.

The solution is a "Pointcut Declaration". So, we just need to declare our pointcut at just one place and then we can apply it to multiple advices. It is like creating a separate function just once and then simply calling it wherever we need it in our code.

# CREATING A POINTCUT DECLARATION

To create a Pointcut Declaration, we use an annotation named "@Pointcut". And this annotation must be used on a "method" that has a "void" return type.

So, if we have a pointcut expression that matches any method in the "dao" package like this -

    execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.*(..))

We can create a pointcut declaration like this - 

    @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.*(..))")
    private void matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() {}

So, there is no rule to have a specific method name for pointcut declarations. You can have any name. Just make sure the return type is "void".

# USING THE POINTCUT DECLARATION

And now, just like a regular method, wherever we need this exact pointcut expression, we simply call this "matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage()" method there.

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage()")
    public void beforeAddAccountAdvice() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @Before advice on addAccount()");
    }

So, the benefit of the pointcut declarations is that we can easily reuse the pointcut expressions and if we have to update a pointcut expression, we just need to update it at one place.

We can also share and combine pointcut expressions which we will learn in the next section.