What if we have to apply more than one pointcut expressions to a single advice? 

Do we have to again write the same "Advice" and then use a different pointcut on that? That does not seem like a good approach!

Let's say we want to apply the advice to all the methods in a package except for the "getters" and "setters". Just think about how can we do it with one pointcut expression. We cannot!

So, in such cases, we have to "combine" pointcut expressions and Spring AOP does offer us the feature to combine multiple pointcut expressions using logical operators.

The logical operators that we can use to combine pointcut expressions are - 

    AND (&&)
    OR (||)
    NOT (!)

So, as you might have imagined, when we combine pointcut expressions, it works like an "if" statement. So, only if the result is "true", the execution will happen.

For example - 

    @Before("expressionOne() && expressionTwo())
    @Before("expressionOne() || expressionTwo())
    @Before("expressionOne() && !expressionTwo())

In the first example, the execution happens only if both the pointcut expressions are evalutated to true.

In the second example, the execution happens if at least one of the two pointcut expressions is evalutated to true.

In the third example, the execution happens if the first pointcut expression evaluates to true and the second pointcut expression evaluates to false.

# EXAMPLE

Let's now apply everything to our code.

What if we want to apply the advice to any method of "dao" package, except the "getter" and "setter" methods?

First, we ofcourse create a "Pointcut declaration" for matching all the methods of the "dao" package. We have done this already and it looks like this - 

    @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.*(..))")
    private void matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() {}

Next, we need to create another method that will match all the "getter" methods in the "dao" package -

    @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.get*(..))")
    private void matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() {}

Finally, we need to create another method that will match all the "setter" methods in the "dao" package -

    @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.set*(..))")
    private void matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage() {}

And now, its time to combine them using pointcut expressions.

So, let's say we have an advice named "forAllDaoMethodsExceptGettersSetters()" - 

    public void forAllDaoMethodsExceptGetterSetters() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> This advice won't be applied to getters and setters of the 'dao' package");
    }

Now, we want to make sure this "Advice" only runs for the methods of "dao" package that are not "getters" or "setters".

So, we can simply combine the above three pointcut expressions - 

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !(matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage())")

And so now, this Advice won't be applied if a getter or setter method in dao package gets executed.

To test if everything is working, we can add some "getter" and "setter" methods in our DAOImpl class. Before that you will also have to add them in the interface - 

    public interface AccountDAO {

        void addAccount();

        void addAccount(Account account);

        void addAccount(Account account, boolean vip);

        String getServiceCode();
        void setServiceCode(String message);

        String getName();
        void setName(String name);
    }

In Impl, we can have the getters and setters like this - 

    public String getName() {
        System.out.println(getClass() + ": getName()");
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
        System.out.println(getClass() + ": setName()");
        this.name = name;
    }

    public String getServiceCode() {
        System.out.println(getClass() + ": getServiceCode()");
        return serviceCode;
    }

    public void setServiceCode(String serviceCode) {
        System.out.println(getClass() + ": setServiceCode()");
        this.serviceCode = serviceCode;
    }

And now, in the main class, try calling these and then see in the terminal what advices get executed for these getters and setters.

You will see that the "forAllDaoMethodsExceptGetterSetters()" will not be executed for these getters and setters because the combination of pointcut expressions is not returning true in case the getter or setter is called. And that's exactly what we wanted!

And we can apply this combination to all our advices if we want that none of them should be applied for getters and setters.


    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !(matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
    public void beforeAddAccountAdvice() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @Before advice on addAccount()");
    }

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !(matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
    public void performApiAnalytics() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Performing API analytics");
    }

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !(matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage())")
    public void forAllDaoMethodsExceptGetterSetters() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> This advice won't be applied to getters and setters of the 'dao' package");
    }

And since we already know about pointcut declarations, we can make it even cleaner by moving this part "(matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage())" to a separate pointcut declaration.

    @Pointcut("matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
    private void matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage() {}

And now, we can update our advices like this - 

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
    public void beforeAddAccountAdvice() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @Before advice on addAccount()");
    }

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
    public void performApiAnalytics() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Performing API analytics");
    }

    @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
    public void forAllDaoMethodsExceptGetterSetters() {
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> This advice won't be applied to getters and setters of the 'dao' package");
    }

So, we can see how powerful and useful the pointcut declarations and combining of pointcut expression really is!