How to control the order of the advices being applied when they all match on the same condition?

Suppose we have three Advices in our Aspect - 

    Advice1
    Advice2
    Advice3

By default, the order is undefined so Spring can pick any one of them to run first, then the second one and then the third.

To control the order of the advices, there are two things we can do -

    1. Refactor the Aspect classes and place advices in separate Aspects.
    2. Control order on Aspects using the @Order annotation

And these steps will guarantee the order in which Advices are applied.

# STEP 1 - PLACE ADVICES IN SEPARATE ASPECTS

Let's say we have three Advices currently in our project and they are all in a single Aspect class - 

    beforeAddAccountAdvice
    performApiAnalyticsAdvice
    logToCloudAdvice

Now, we will refactor our code and move them in their separate Aspect classes. Because remember that currently, we have one Aspect class named "LoggingAspect" so it should only be used for "Logging" related Advices.

So, we can create three separate Aspects (classes) now - 

    LoggingAspect
    ApiAnalyticsAspect
    CloudLogAspect

But we have one problem. What about the Pointcut declarations that we have in LoggingAspect class? How to share them between multiple Aspect classes?

Well, we can create one separate class just for the Pointcut declarations so that we can simply use this class to get the specific pointcut declaration inside an Aspect class.

    @Aspect
    public class PointcutDeclarations {

        @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.*(..))")
        public void matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() {}

        @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.get*(..))")
        public void matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() {}

        @Pointcut("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.*.set*(..))")
        public void matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage() {}

        @Pointcut("matchGetterMethodsInDaoPackage() || matchSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
        public void matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage() {}
    }

Note that it is not mandatory to add @Aspect annotation if your class only contains Pointcuts. It is needed only if the class has "Advices" as well. So, you opt out of it if you want to. We are adding just in case we add some Advices later in this class.

Note that now, if we want to reference these methods in some Aspect class, we have to provide the fully qualified class name - 

    "com.example.aopdemo.aspect.PointcutDeclarations"

But, we can make it better by simply extending the "PointcutDeclarations" class from our Aspect classes. In this way, we will get all the methods of that class without having to copy paste anything and then we can simply use the method names only.

    public class LoggingAspect extends PointcutDeclarations {...}
    public class CloudLogAspect extends PointcutDeclarations {...}
    public class ApiAnalyticsAspect extends PointcutDeclarations {...}

# STEP 2 - ADD @ORDER ANNOTATION

The next step is to define the order in which these advices are executed. We use the @Order annotation for that.

The order annotation defines the sorting order of an annotated component or bean. So, it is not just limited for "Aspects". Before Spring 4.0, the @Order annotation was used only for the AspectJ execution order. It means the highest order advice will run first.

Since Spring 4.0, it supports the ordering of injected components to a collection. As a result, Spring will inject the auto-wired beans of the same type based on their order value.

It takes one optional value argument which determines the order of the component, with the default value as "Ordered.LOWEST_PRECEDENCE". This marks that the component has the lowest priority among all other ordered components.

Note that "Lower" the value passed to @Order, "Higher" the precedence.

So, let's say we want the following order - 

    CloudLogAspect
    LoggingDemoAspect
    ApiAnalyticsAspect

So, in this case, we will annotate the classes like this - 

    @Order(1)
    public class CloudLogAspect {...}

    @Order(2)
    public class LoggingDemoAspect {...}

    @Order(3)
    public class ApiAnalyticsAspect {...}

And now, this will ensure that the very first Aspect to be used is the "CloudLogAspect". Then the "LoggingDemoAspect", and finally the "ApiAnalyticsAspect".

Note that "negative" numbers are also allowed because the range of values that @Order can take is fron "Integer.MIN_VALUE" to "Integer.MAX_VALUE". Moreover, it is not necessary that the numbers need to be consecutive. We could've written - 

    @Order(1)
    public class CloudLogAspect {...}

    @Order(100)
    public class LoggingDemoAspect {...}

    @Order(1000)
    public class ApiAnalyticsAspect {...}

Now you may think.... What if two or more aspects have the same @Order annotation?

What if we have - 

    @Order(1)
    public class CloudLogAspect {...}

    @Order(2)
    public class LoggingDemoAspect {...}

    @Order(2)
    public class ApiAnalyticsAspect {...}

So, in this case, the order is undefined between "LoggingDemoAspect" and "ApiAnalyticsAspect". Spring may pick "LoggingDemoAspect" before "ApiAnalyticsAspect" or vice versa.

But, they will still run only after the "CloudLogAspect" because the order value for "CloudLogAspect" is the smallest among all.

So, with all this, this is how our three Aspect classes will look like -

LoggingAspect - 

    @Aspect
    @Component
    @Order(2)
    public class LoggingAspect {

        @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
        public void beforeAddAccountAdvice() {
            System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @Before advice on addAccount()");
        }
    }

CloudLogAspect - 

    @Aspect
    @Component
    @Order(1)
    public class CloudLogAspect {

        @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
        public void logToCloud() {
            System.out.println("\n=====>>> Logging to Cloud");
        }
    }

ApiAnalyticsAspect - 

    @Aspect
    @Component
    @Order(3)
    public class ApiAnalyticsAspect {

        @Before("matchAnyMethodInDaoPackage() && !matchGetterAndSetterMethodsInDaoPackage()")
        public void performApiAnalytics() {
            System.out.println("\n=====>>> Performing API analytics");
        }
    }