Sometimes, we want to get access to the parameters of the method on which our "Advices" execute.

For example, in our LoggingAspect, what if we specifically want to log what are the arguments passed to that specific method? So far, we haven't done that and we have simply printed the same message in the terminal.

That's not how we work in real-world applications. We might want to log exactly what are the values passed to the method. How can we do that in Spring AOP?

In other words, how can we access the method paramters using JoinPoints?

# STEP 1 - ACCESS & DISPLAY THE METHOD SIGNATURE

We can actually pass an argument to our "Advice" method which is of type "JoinPoint".

For example - 

    @Before("...")
    public void beforeAddAccountAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint) {...}

And this "JoinPoint" argument will have all the data about the method before which this Advice is executed.

So, if we want to maybe get the method signature on which this Advice is executed, we can say -

    @Before("...")
    public void beforeAddAccountAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint) {

        MethodSignature methodSignature = (MethodSignature) joinPoint.getSignature();

        System.out.println("Method: " + methodSignature);
    }

So now, it will log to the terminal something like this - 

    Method Signature is :void com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAOImpl.addAccount(Account,boolean)

So, it will give us the "Return Type", the fully qualified "Class Name", and also the "Parameter" types.

# STEP 2 - ACCESS & DISPLAY THE METHOD ARGUMENTS

Well, the method signature is all fine but still, that does not solve the problem we had initially. How do we get access to the actual arguments passed to the methods?

Well, we can again use the "JoinPoint" parameter that we have passed to our Advice method.

This parameter gives us access to a method named "getArgs()" which gives us a list of Arguments passed to the method on which this Advice executes.

    @Before("...")
    public void beforeAddAccountAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint) {

        Object[] args = joinPoint.getArgs();
        System.out.println("Method arguments are: ");
        for(Object arg: args) {
            System.out.println(arg);
        }
    }

And now, it will print something like this in the terminal - 

    Method arguments are: 
    com.example.aopdemo.Account@13cd7ea5
    true

So, it means there are two arguments passed -> One is the "Account" object and the other is the boolean "true".

And to make it even better, we can add a "toString()" method to our "Account" class. This wil then print all the details properly in the terminal -

    Method arguments are: 
    Account{name='John', level='1'}
    true