Well, let's continue with learning the different types of Advices in Spring AOP. We have already learnt about the "@Before" advice which lets us execute any piece of code "before" the execution of method(s).

The next advice in the list is "@AfterReturning" advice which is used to execute some code "AFTER" the method has "SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTED".

As the name suggests, it is used to run the piece of code after the method has "RETURNED" something back. And we know that a method only returns something if it does not throw any exception.

If the method throws an exception, then the "@AfterReturning" advice will not be executed.

Just like the @Before advice, the most common use case of this Advice is to "Log" the data or to do some "Security" related stuff or "Transactions" related stuff.

Moreover, since this advice gets called "AFTER" the method returns something, we can also use it to "POST-PROCESS" the data before returning it to the caller.

There is absolutely no difference in how you define an @AfterReturning advice when compared to the @Before advice. It is just that you will use a different annotation and that's it.

    @AfterReturning("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))")
    public void afterReturningFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint) {
        ...
    }

But, there is on thing that you can do using @AfterReturning advice and that's to "ACCESS" the returned value of the method on which it is called.

# ACCESSING THE RETURN VALUE OF A METHOD

So, how do we access it? We know that to get the method signature and the parameters, we can use the "JoinPoint" type method parameter in our Advice method. But, what about the "return" value? How do we get that?

Well, the @AfterReturning advice takes in not just the "pointcut" expression but also an attribute named "returning" which we can then set to some "variable name" and then that "variable name" will hold the returned value of that method. Then, we simply need to pass an argument to the Advice method with the same name as this "variable name "we have defined. And that's how we get hold of the returned value.

Here is an example -

    @AfterReturning(
        pointcut="execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))",
        returning="result"
    )
    public void afterReturningFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint, List<Account> result) {
        ...
    }

Notice that here, the value of "returning" attribute is "result". This means that if we have an argument named "result" in our "afterReturningFindAccountsAdvice" method, then that will have the returned value of the method on which this Advice executes at any time.

# DEVELOPMENT PROCESS

Let's now code.

## STEP 1 - ADD A NEW METHOD IN ACCOUNTDAO

Let's add a new method named "findAccounts()" in the AccountDAO that will return us a list of accounts.

    public interface AccountDAO {
        List<Account> findAccounts();
    }

And we will have a simple implementation of it like this - 

    @Override
    public List<Account> findAccounts() {
        List<Account> accounts = new ArrayList<>();

        Account account1 = new Account("Silver", "John");
        Account account2 = new Account("Platinum", "Mary");
        Account account3 = new Account("Gold", "Susan");

        accounts.add(account1);
        accounts.add(account2);
        accounts.add(account3);
        
        return accounts;
    }

## STEP 2 - CALL THIS NEW METHOD IN THE MAIN CLASS

Now, let's make a call to this method from our main class and see that everything is working fine.

    List<Account> accounts = this.accountDAO.findAccounts();
	System.out.println("Method findAccounts() called from the main Class.");
	System.out.println("Accounts are :" + accounts);
	
If everything goes fine, then we should see the terminal printing this - 

    Method findAccounts() called from the main Class.
    Accounts are :
    [
        Account{name='John', level='Silver'}, 
        Account{name='Mary', level='Platinum'}, 
        Account{name='Susan', level='Gold'}
    ]

## STEP 3 - ADD THE @AFTERRETURNING ADVICE

Now, let's do the main task. We will create a new Advice that runs after the "findAccounts()" method gets executed and it returns some data and does not throw any exception.

    @AfterReturning(
            pointcut = "execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))",
            returning = "result"
    )
    public void afterReturningFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint, List<Account> result) {

        // Print out which method we are advising on
        String method = joinPoint.getSignature().toShortString();
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @AfterReturning on method: " + method);

        // Print out the results of the method call
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Returned value is: " + result);
    }

And now, when our "findAccounts()" method is called and it returns a list of accounts, we will get this printed in the terminal - 

    =====>>> Executing @AfterReturning on method: AccountDAOImpl.findAccounts()
    =====>>> Returned value is: [Account{name='John', level='Silver'}, Account{name='Mary', level='Platinum'}, Account{name='Susan', level='Gold'}]

    Method findAccounts() called from the main Class.
    Accounts are :[Account{name='John', level='Silver'}, Account{name='Mary', level='Platinum'}, Account{name='Susan', level='Gold'}]

Did you notice something? Our @AfterReturning advice will be executed first and then the code in our main app to print the result in terminal runs. And this is a very important thing to observe because remember that we said we can transform the data returned by a method before it reaches the caller. That's exactly what is happening here.

Our "findAccounts()" method is called by the main class. But, before the data is returned back to the main class, it already reaches the @AfterReturning advice where we can do something with it if we want to. In the next section, we will learn how to modify the returned value.