Recall that in the previous section, we understood some common use cases of the @AfterReturning advice in Spring AOP and one of them is to "Post Process" the data returned to the caller before it reaches the caller. 

And there isn't anything special we need to do for this. We do not have to use any special annotations.

All we need to do is take the return value and do any updates we want to do and that's it. 

For example, let's say we want to take the first item of the returned list of accounts in findAccounts() and change the name to "James". So, we can write -

    @AfterReturning(
            pointcut = "execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))",
            returning = "result"
    )
    public void afterReturningFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint, List<Account> result) {

        // Print out which method we are advising on
        String method = joinPoint.getSignature().toShortString();
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @AfterReturning on method: " + method);

        // Print out the results of the method call
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Returned value is: " + result);

        // Updating the name of the first Account
        if (!result.isEmpty()) {
            Account account = result.get(0);
            account.setName("James");
        }
    }

Note that at the end of this Advice, we are simply updating the name of the first account in the list to "James".

And because our print statements are before this update, it means the old returned data will be printed when this Advice gets called and only then the data is updated and then the updated data is sent to the main class where the findAccounts() function was called.

So, in the terminal we see - 

    =====>>> Executing @AfterReturning on method: AccountDAOImpl.findAccounts()

    =====>>> Returned value is: [Account{name='John', level='Silver'}, Account{name='Mary', level='Platinum'}, Account{name='Susan', level='Gold'}]

    Method findAccounts() called from the main Class.
    Accounts are :[Account{name='James', level='Silver'}, Account{name='Mary', level='Platinum'}, Account{name='Susan', level='Gold'}]

Take a look at the return value printed in the "Advice" method. It has the first account's name as "John".

But, take a look at the return value received by the main class. It has the first account's name as "James". That's because we modified this returned value in our Advice method before this return value is sent to the caller.

That's how we can modify the return value.

It is very important that your development team is aware of the AOP being used in the application. Otherwise it will ve very tricky to figure out why the value returned from the function is different than the value that reaches the caller.