We have already learned about the @AfterReturning advice which runs when a method "returns" some value and does not throw any exception.

We also saw how we can get access to the returned value and even modify that value before it reaches the caller.

But, what if the method throws an Exception and we want some code to be executed when that happens? Ofcourse we cannot use @AfterReturning in that case. 

In such scenario, we can use the @AfterThrowing advice.

So, the common use cases are - 

    - Log the exception
    - Perform auditing on the exception
    - Notify the DevOps team via email or SMS
    - Encapsulate this functionality in AOP Aspect for easy reuse
  
# ACCESSING THE EXCEPTION OBJECT

So, just like how we can access the returned value in the @AfterReturning advice, we can also access the thrown Exception object when using @AfterThrowing.

For that, the @AfterThrowing annotation takes an attribute with name "throwing". This is similar to the "returning" attribute of the @AfterReturning. So, we just need to pass some name and with this same name, we need to define a parameter in our Advice method and that will then have the Exception object that is thrown by the method on which this Advice executes.

For example - 

    @AfterThrowing(
        pointcut="execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))"
        throwing="abc"
    )
    public void afterThrowingFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint, Exception abc) {

        System.out.println(abc);
    }

Note that the name "abc" is the same in "throwing" attribute and also in the parameter.

# EXCEPTION PROPAGATION

In the above code, we are not doing anything with the thrown exception except for console logging it. What this means is that this exception will still reach the calling program.

If we want to not let the exception reach the calling program, we can use the @Around advice but we will discuss that in the later sections.

# LET'S CODE

So, let's add a try-catch block in our main class to catch any exception thrown by the findAccounts() method.

        List<Account> accounts = null;

		try {
			accounts = this.accountDAO.findAccounts();
		} catch (Exception e) {
			System.out.println("\n\nMain Program: ... caught exception: " + e);
		}

		System.out.println("\n\nMain Program: methodCallsForAfterThrowingAdvice");
		System.out.println("Accounts are :" + accounts);

Now, let's simulate an exception being thrown. For that, we can simply throw an exception inside the "findAccounts()" method in our DAO.

A better way would be to pass a flag in "findAccounts()" method based on which we either throw an exception or we do normal work of returning the list.

So, let's update our AccountsDAO to accept this flag in findAccounts() - 

    public interface AccountDAO {
        List<Account> findAccounts(boolean tripWire) throws Exception;
    }

And here is our Impl - 

    @Override
    public List<Account> findAccounts(boolean tripWire) throws Exception {

        // Throw an exception to test afterThrowing advice
        if (tripWire) throw new Exception("Exception thrown from findAccounts() method!");

        List<Account> accounts = new ArrayList<>();

        Account account1 = new Account("Silver", "John");
        Account account2 = new Account("Platinum", "Mary");
        Account account3 = new Account("Gold", "Susan");

        accounts.add(account1);
        accounts.add(account2);
        accounts.add(account3);

        return accounts;

    }

And we can update the main app to pass a flag of "true" if we want an exception to be thrown.

    try {
			accounts = this.accountDAO.findAccounts(true);
		} catch (Exception e) {
			System.out.println("\n\nMain Program: ... caught exception: " + e);
		}

Now, if we run our application, an exception will be thrown and we will see that printed in the terminal because of the "catch" block we have written.

Finally, let's add the @AfterThrowing advice now to our application.

That is pretty simple - 


    @AfterThrowing(
            pointcut = "execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))",
            throwing = "exception"
    )
    public void afterReturningFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint, Exception exception) {

        // Print out which method we are advising on
        String method = joinPoint.getSignature().toShortString();
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @AfterReturning on method: " + method);

        // Print the exception thrown
        System.out.println("Exception thrown is: "+ exception);
    }

So, now, when the application runs, we will see the following printed in the terminal - 
 
    =====>>> Executing @AfterReturning on method: AccountDAOImpl.findAccounts(..)
    Exception thrown is: java.lang.Exception: Exception thrown from findAccounts() method!

And this happens before we reach the "catch" block of our main method. And after this, the terminal will print -

    Main Program: ... caught exception: java.lang.Exception: Exception thrown from findAccounts() method!

So, as we discussed, the @AfterThrowing does not stop the propagation of the exception. The exception will still reach the caller.