The @After advice is a pretty interesting one because this advice will execute on a method, does not matter if that method returns something or throws an exception.

This means the @AfterReturning and @AfterThrowing are used to have a fine grain control, whereas the @After advice will always run, regardless of whether the method ran successfully or threw an exception.

It is similar to a "finally" block. A "finally" block will always run, even if an exception is thrown.

And for this reason, this advice is also known as "After Finally" advice.

The common use cases include logging the exception or performing the audiding and maybe there is some code we want to run regardless of method outcome, for example to release resources etc.

It is a very simple advice, similar to @Before so there is no special attribute that we pass in it. All that we pass is the pointcut expression. This means, we cannot acces the "exception or the "returned value" in the @After advice. For that, we have to use the @AfterThrowing or @afterReturning advices.

# LET'S CODE

Let's add the @After advice to our LoggingAspect class - 

    @After("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.findAccounts(..))")
    public void afterFindAccountsAdvice(JoinPoint joinPoint) {

        // Print out which method we are advising on
        String method = joinPoint.getSignature().toShortString();
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @After on method: " + method);
    }

To test it, we can simply use the same code as before. We can first test the failure case by passing a "true" flag to the findAccounts method. And the terminal should print - 

    =====>>> Executing @After on method: AccountDAOImpl.findAccounts(..)

So, it means when the exception is thrown, the @After advice is being executed.

Now, we can do the same thing but let's pass the flag as "false" in our findAccounts method. It means, this time, a list of accounts must be returned. The terminal should still print - 

    =====>>> Executing @After on method: AccountDAOImpl.findAccounts(..)

And this means our @After advice is working as expected. It does not matter if our findAccounts() method throws an exception of returns some value. This advice will always be executed.

