Finally, we have the @Around advice which is the most powerful kind of advice that Spring AOP gives us.

As the name shows, this advice can perform custom behavior both before and after the method invocation.

It is like a combination of the @Before and @After advices but it gives us a more fine-grained control.

As always, the most common use cases include Logging, Auditing and Security.

We can also use it for Pre-processing and Post-processing the data.

We can also use it to profile our code. For example, to find how long does it take for a section of code to run.

And one of the very important use cases of this advice type is to Manage the exceptions. So, we can "Swallow" or "Handle" or "Stop" the exceptions using this Advice.

# PROCEEDING JOINPOINT

We have seen that in @Before, @AfterReturning, @AfterThrowing, and @After advices, we have access to the "JoinPoint" on which the specific Advice is being executed. And using this object, we can get information about the state of that joinpoint.

But, in case of @Around, we have something called "ProceedingJoinPoint" which is an extension of "JoinPoint" and it means apart from the usual stuff that "JoinPoint" object gives us, we get some additional things like an additional "proceed()" method. 

This "proceed" method, when invoked, either makes the code execution jump to the next advice or to the "target method". It gives us the power to control the code flow and to decide whether to proceed or not with further invokations.

In simpler words, our code can use the "ProceedingJoinPoint" to "execute" the target method.

And this is what makes the @Around advice so powerful.

    @Around("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.service.*.getFortune(..))")
    public Object aroundAdviceDemoMethod(ProceedingJoinPoint pjp) throws Throwable {...}

So, let's say that we want to profile some method which means we want to see how much time that particular method execution took.

We can use the "Around" advice for that so that we start a timer initially, then we use the "ProceedingJoinPoint" to invoke that method, and then we check after method invokation how much time it took.

So, we can write -

    @Around("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.service.*.getFortune(..))")
    public Object aroundAdviceDemoMethod(ProceedingJoinPoint pjp) throws Throwable {
        
        // Get the begin timestamp
        long begin = System.currentTimeMillis();

        // Execute the method
        Object result = pjp.proceed();

        // Get the end timestamp
        long end = System.currentTimeMillis();

        // Compute the duration and display it
        System.out.println("Duration: " + duration + " milliseconds");

        // Return the result to the calling program 
        return result;
    }

# LET'S CODE

Let's create a new "Service" named "TrafficFortuneService" in our code. This is the interface - 

    public interface TrafficFortuneService {
        public String getFortune();
    }

And here is the implementation - 

    @Service
    public class TrafficFortuneServiceImpl implements TrafficFortuneService{

        @Override
        public String getFortune() {

            // Simulate a delay
            try {
                TimeUnit.SECONDS.sleep(5);
            } catch (InterruptedException e) {
                throw new RuntimeException(e);
            }

            // Return a fortune
            return "Expect heavy traffic this morning!";
        }
    }

So, as you can see, our "getFortune" method will wait for "5" seconds before it actually returns some data back.

We can test that by calling this method in our main class - 

    void methodCallsForAroundAdvice() {
		System.out.println("\n\nMain Program: methodCallsForAroundAdvice");

		System.out.println("Calling getFortune()");

		String data = this.trafficFortuneService.getFortune();

		System.out.println("\n My fortune is:  "+ data);

		System.out.println("Finished");
	}

When the above method is called in the main class, we see that instantly this gets printed - 
    
    Main Program: methodCallsForAroundAdvice
    Calling getFortune()

But, only after a delay of five seconds, this gets printed - 

    My fortune is:  Expect heavy traffic this morning!
    Finished.

So, our delay is working as expected.

Now, it's time to use the "Around" advice and profile this method. So, our @Around advice will be like this  -

    @Around("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.service.*.getFortune(..))")
    public Object aroundGetFortuneAdvice(ProceedingJoinPoint pjp) throws Throwable {

        // Print out the method we are advising on
        String method = pjp.getSignature().toShortString();
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @Around on method: " + method);

        // Get the begin timestamp
        long begin = System.currentTimeMillis();

        // Execute the method
        Object result = pjp.proceed();

        // Get the end timestamp
        long end = System.currentTimeMillis();

        // Compute the duration and display it
        long duration = end - begin;
        System.out.println("Time taken by the getFortune() method to execute: " + duration/1000.0 + " seconds");

        // Return the data back to the calling program
        return result;
    }

And now, when we run our main app, then we will see this printed in the terminal first - 

    Main Program: methodCallsForAroundAdvice
    Calling getFortune()

Now, when the "getFortune()" is called, the @Around advice is executed and we see - 

    =====>>> Executing @Around on method: TrafficFortuneServiceImpl.getFortune()

And after a couple of seconds, we get something like this - 

    Time taken by the getFortune() method to execute: 5.004 seconds

And finally, the result is returned to the main class and then it prints -

    My fortune is:  Expect heavy traffic this morning!

And that's the basic use of an @Around advice.