When we learned the @AfterThrowing advice we got to know that we cannot actually swallow or swop the propagation of an Exception thrown from a method using the @AfterThrowing advice because we do not have that much control on our method's execution.

But, in case of @Around advice, we can control the method invokation which means we can decide when to call the method and what to return back.

In this way, we can use the @Around method to handle the exceptions thrown by the methods on which it executes.

We can either swallow or stop the exception or rethrow the exception.

# HANDLING / SWALLOWING / STOPPING AN EXCEPTION

All we have to do is whenever we called "proceed()" method in our @Around advice, we place that piece of code in a "try" block. In this way, if the method throws an exception, then we will automatically go into the "catch" block. And in the "catch" block, we can do whatever we want to do with this exception.


So, maybe we do not want to throw an exception but we want to return a new String when there is an exception. In this way, the caller program never knows there was an exception thrown.

    @Around("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.service.*.getFortune(..))")
    public Object aroundGetFortune(ProceedingJoinPoint pjp) throws Throwable {
        Object result = null;
        try {
            result = pjp.proceed();
        } catch (Exception e) {
            System.out.println("@Around advice: we have a problem " + e);

            result = "Nothing exciting here. Move along!";
        }

        return result;
    }

So, if an "exception" is thrown by the getFortune() method, even then the caller program gets some String back, just as it does when some data is returned.

But, you should use this with caution. Because you may or may not ant to let the caller program know that there is an exception. It all depends on your application.

Let's update our "getFortune" method so that it accepts a boolean flag which, if true, means we should throw an exception.


    public interface TrafficFortuneService {
        public String getFortune(boolean tripWire) throws Exception;
    }

Here is the implementation - 

    @Override
    public String getFortune(boolean tripWire) throws Exception {

        // Throw an exception if flag is true
        if (tripWire) throw new Exception("Major accident! Highway is closed!");

        // Simulate a delay
        TimeUnit.SECONDS.sleep(5);

        // Return a fortune
        return "Expect heavy traffic this morning!";
    }

And now, in our main class, if we call the "getFortune()" with a "true" flag, then an exception is thrown. Otherwise, a string is returned.

    void methodCallsForAroundAdvice() throws Exception {
		System.out.println("\n\nMain Program: methodCallsForAroundAdvice");

		System.out.println("Calling getFortune()");

		String data = this.trafficFortuneService.getFortune(true);

		System.out.println("\n My fortune is:  "+ data);

		System.out.println("Finished");
	}

So, since we are passing a "true" in the above code, it means an exception is thrown and it will be printed in the terminal.

Finally, let's modify our @Around advice so that in case of an exception, it returns some message string.

All we need to do is add a try catch block to handle the exception.

    @Around("execution(* com.example.aopdemo.service.*.getFortune(..))")
    public Object aroundGetFortuneAdvice(ProceedingJoinPoint pjp) throws Throwable {

        // Print out the method we are advising on
        String method = pjp.getSignature().toShortString();
        System.out.println("\n=====>>> Executing @Around on method: " + method);

        // Get the begin timestamp
        long begin = System.currentTimeMillis();

        // Execute the method
        Object result = null;

        try {
            result = pjp.proceed();
        } catch (Exception e) {
            System.out.println("Exception thrown: " + e.getMessage());
            result = "Major accident! But no worries, your private AOP helicoper is on the way!";
        }

        // Get the end timestamp
        long end = System.currentTimeMillis();

        // Compute the duration and display it
        long duration = end - begin;
        System.out.println("Time taken by the getFortune() method to execute: " + duration/1000.0 + " seconds");

        // Return the data back to the calling program
        return result;
    }


So now, since on an exception we are returning a new String back, the main class never knows that there was an exception thrown by the getFortune() method.

So, in this way, we can handle an exception thrown by a method in the @Around advice and stop its propagation if we want to.

# RETHROWING AN EXCEPTION

Sometimes, we do not want to do anything when an exception is thrown by a method. We just want to rethrow that exception so that the caller program knows that an exception was thrown.

There is nothing special to do here. Instead of setting a string, we just "throw" the exception in the catch block. That's it!

    try {
        result = pjp.proceed();
    } catch (Exception e) {
        System.out.println("Exception thrown: " + e.getMessage());
        throw e; <- RETHROWING
    }

And that's it!