Now, let's write our first test to see if there are no issues in our setup.


    @Test
    public void getStudentsHttpRequestTest() {

        CollegeStudent student1 = new CollegeStudent("Eric", "Roby", "ericroby@gmail.com");

        CollegeStudent student2 = new CollegeStudent("John", "Doe", "johndoe@gmail.com");

        List<CollegeStudent> studentList = new ArrayList<>();
        studentList.add(student1);
        studentList.add(student2);

        when(studentAndGradeServiceMock.getGradebook()).thenReturn(studentList);

        assertIterableEquals(studentList, studentAndGradeServiceMock.getGradebook());

    }

Here, we simply mocked the "getGradebook()" method of the service class and said that if this method is called on the mock service object, then we will return a list of two students.

And at the end, we simply assert if we indeed get a list of two students when we call that method.

Now, if our setup is all fine, we will see this test passing.

# UPDATING THE CONTROLLER

Now, in our controller at the moment, we are simply returning the index.html file when we go to the home route. But if you open this index.html file, you will see that we are not actually getting the list of students from anywhere. We are hardcoding it. The actual code to iterate over a list of students is commented out -

    <tr th:each="student, iterator : ${students}" >
    ......
    ......
    </tr>

That's because so far, we are not passing this list of students to this "index" view but now we will do that.

    @RequestMapping(value = "/", method = RequestMethod.GET)
	public String getStudents(Model m) {

		Iterable<CollegeStudent> collegeStudentIterable = this.studentAndGradeService.getGradebook();

		m.addAttribute("students", collegeStudentIterable);

		return "index";
	}

So, we simply get the list of students from the service and then set the "students" attribute of our model to be this list/iterable.

# TESTING THE VIEW NAME

Let's write a simple test that will check if the name of the "view" is "index" when we make a request to "/" path.

For that, we will finally use the "MockMvc" that we had injected in this test class.

    MvcResult result = mockMvc.perform(MockMvcRequestBuilders.get("/"))
                .andExpect(status().isOk())
                .andReturn()

Here, all that we are doing is we are making a get request to "/" path and then we are expecting a status of "OK".

You will get an error in the IDE saying - 

    Unhandled exception: java.lang.Exception

So, just add the "throws" statement in the method - 

    @Test
    public void getStudentsHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {...}


Now, from this "MvcResult" object, we can actually get the Model and the View data.

    ModelAndView modelAndView = result.getModelAndView();

And now, from this "modelAndView" object, we can get the actual view name and check if it is "index" or not. We know that it should be "index" because that's what we have specified in the controller.

    if (modelAndView != null) {
        assertEquals("index",modelAndView.getViewName());
    }

Another way to do this assertion is to use the "assertViewName" method of the "ModelAndViewAssert" class -

    if (modelAndView != null) {
        ModelAndViewAssert.assertViewName(modelAndView, "index");
    }