Let's now test a POST request.

We will create a new student in the database using a POST request and then we will verify the results by accessing the data using the Student Repository object.

Now, at this point, we do not have any controller method for handling a POST request so it is a good time to practice TDD where we will write a failing test first and then write the actual code around that test to make it pass.

Is there a way to define a request with all the parameters before all the tests? So that we can then simply use that request whenever needed?

Well, we can do that by creating a "MockHttpServletRequest" object.

Now, you may think that we should do that in @BeforeEach. But, we only want to do it once. And here, we can use @BeforeAll. 

    private static MockHttpServletRequest mockHttpServletRequest;

    @BeforeAll
    public static void setup() {...}

Note that @BeforeAll methods must be declared as static. And this means, this method cannot access any non-static fields of this test class.

And that's the reason why we created the "MockHttpServletRequest" as a "static" variable.

And now, in this method, we can create our mock request - 

    @BeforeAll
    public static void setup() {
        mockHttpServletRequest = new MockHttpServletRequest();

        mockHttpServletRequest.setParameter("firstname", "John");
        mockHttpServletRequest.setParameter("lastname", "Doe");
        mockHttpServletRequest.setParameter("emailAddress", "johndoe@gmail.com");
    }

So now, when we make a post request, this is the specific request we will use so we have predefined the data for this request.

    @Test
    public void createStudentHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        MvcResult result = mockMvc.perform(
                post("/")
                        .contentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
                        .param("firstname", mockHttpServletRequest.getParameterValues("firstname"))
                        .param("lastname", mockHttpServletRequest.getParameterValues("lastname"))
                        .param("emailAddress", mockHttpServletRequest.getParameterValues("emailAddress"))
        ).andExpect(status().isOk()).andReturn();

        ModelAndView modelAndView = result.getModelAndView();

        if (modelAndView != null) {
            ModelAndViewAssert.assertViewName(modelAndView, "index");
        }

    }

This time as well, we used the "MockMvc" object and its "perform" method to make a post call but this time, we also specified what the content type is and what are the parameters.

Note that when we set the parameter values, we use the values from "MockHttpServletRequest" that we have setup in the @BeforeAll.

And finally, we simply assert the view name.

But, when we run the test, it fails - 

    java.lang.AssertionError: Status expected:<200> but was:<405>
    Expected :200
    Actual   :405

The "405" code is for "Method Not Allowed". It basically means that we do not have permission to make a "POST" request to a resource that we are trying to make a "POST" request to. And that's indeed true because right now, in our Controller, we have only defined the "GET" mapping for the "/" path. There is no "POST" mapping yet.

But as we discussed before, we wanted to write a failing test before we actually write code in our controller and that's what we have done.

# IMPLEMETING POST MAPPING IN THE CONTROLLER

Now, let's create a POST mapping in our controller.

    @PostMapping("/")
	public String createStudent(@ModelAttribute("student") CollegeStudent student, Model m) {
		return "index";
	}

@ModelAttribute is an annotation that binds a method parameter or method return value to a named model attribute, and then exposes it to a web view. Spring MVC will always make a call to that method first, before it calls any request handler methods. Basically, @ModelAttribute methods are invoked before the controller methods annotated with @RequestMapping are invoked. This is because the model object has to be created before any processing starts inside the controller methods.

Now if we run our test again, it will pass this time! Because now, we have a POST mapping that returns a view named "index".

But ofcourse this is not a full test yet because we want to verify that the student was added to the database.

So, in our test method, we can add this at the end -

    CollegeStudent verifyStudent = studentRepository.findByEmailAddress("johndoe@gmail.com");

    assertNotNull(verifyStudent, "Student should be present in the database!");

And now, our test again fails. And that's expected because in the POST mapping, we are not taking the incoming data and saving it in the database. So, at this point, the student is not in the database at all!

And so, let's create this new student and save it in the database.

    @PostMapping("/")
	public String createStudent(@ModelAttribute("student") CollegeStudent student, Model m) {
		studentAndGradeService.createStudent(student.getFirstname(), student.getLastname(), student.getEmailAddress());
		return "index";
	}

And that's it! Now, if everything is all good, our test should pass.