Finally, let's try writing code for "DELETING" a student from the table in the UI.

As always, we will apply TDD so we will first write a failing test and then we add the code to the GradebookController to delete a student that makes the test pass.

    @Test
    public void deleteStudentHttpRequestTest() throws Exception {

        assertTrue(studentRepository.findById(1).isPresent());

        MvcResult result = mockMvc.perform(
                get("/delete/student/{id}", 1))
                .andExpect(status().isOk()).andReturn();

        ModelAndView modelAndView = result.getModelAndView();

        if (modelAndView != null) {
            ModelAndViewAssert.assertViewName(modelAndView, "index");
        }

        assertFalse(studentRepository.findById(1).isPresent());
    }

So here, all that we are doing is - 

    1. First, we make sure student with id = 1 is present in the database which should be true because before each test we are pushing a new student to the table with id = 1
    2. Then, we make a "get" request to the endpoint "/delete/student/{id}" and we pass the "id" as "1".
    3. Then, we make sure the view name is "index"
    4. And finally, if the student is successfully removed, then it should no longer exist in the database and in that case, the final assert should pass.

If we run our test method, it fails because we do not have any endpoint yet for handling the get request.

You might think that if we are deleting a student, why we are not making a "DELETE" request and instead making a "GET" request?

When using Spring MVC web apps, the HTML forms only support GET and POST ... hence this is why we use GET to delete. 

You can use @DeleteMapping with Spring MVC web apps, but it is a more manual process. You will need to add support for JavaScript+jQuery+ajax. The JavaScript will need to intercept form submissions and manually send a DELETE request. When using this approach, you will lose the built-in support for Spring MVC Form Data Binding. You will need to manually construct the data payload to send to the API endpoint.

So, now, its time to add a mapping in the controller.

    @GetMapping("/delete/student/{id}")
	public String deleteStudent(@PathVariable int id, Model m) {
		studentAndGradeService.deleteStudent(id);

		Iterable<CollegeStudent> collegeStudentIterable = this.studentAndGradeService.getGradebook();
		m.addAttribute("students", collegeStudentIterable);

		return "index";
	}

Pretty straightforward stuff.

And now, the app should delete the user when we click on the cross icon. And to verify this, you can check in the H2 console that the student is indeed removed from the table.

# CHECKING AN ERROR PAGE

What if we try to delete a student that does not exist?

We can always manually run this url in the browser - 

    http://localhost:1500/delete/student/123232

What happens if the student with the id as "123232" is not present in the database? In that case, we should show an error page.

So, as always, we write a failing test first for this scenario.

    @Test
    public void deleteStudentHttpRequestErrorPageTest() throws Exception {

        assertFalse(studentRepository.findById(123).isPresent());

        MvcResult result = mockMvc.perform(
                        get("/delete/student/{id}", 123))
                .andExpect(status().isOk()).andReturn();

        ModelAndView modelAndView = result.getModelAndView();

        if (modelAndView != null) {
            ModelAndViewAssert.assertViewName(modelAndView, "error");
        }
    }

So here, we first asserted that the student with id = 123 is indeed not present in the database.

Then, we made a request to delete the student with id as 123 which should give us an error page.

And that's why, we asserted that the view should be "error".

Now, if we run this test, it fails because it says - 

    java.lang.AssertionError: View name is not equal to 'error' but was 'index'

That's because we haven't yet written the code to handle the scenario when we try to delete a user that is not present in the database.

    @GetMapping("/delete/student/{id}")
	public String deleteStudent(@PathVariable int id, Model m) {
		
		if(!studentAndGradeService.checkIfStudentExists(id)) return "error";
		
		studentAndGradeService.deleteStudent(id);

		Iterable<CollegeStudent> collegeStudentIterable = this.studentAndGradeService.getGradebook();
		m.addAttribute("students", collegeStudentIterable);

		return "index";
	}

So, we just needed to add one line of code in the beginning of our mapping method where we return an "error" page if the student with the passed id doesn't exist in the database.

Now, to verify this is working, we can go to the UI and try to go to this URL - 

    http://localhost:1500/delete/student/1234

We know that a student with id as 1234 doesn't exist in database. So, it should now show the error page that says "Something went wrong".