In our current project, we have a Service named "ApplicationService" and in that service, we are autowiring a dependency of "ApplicationDAO".

And we want to test this service but we want to use a "Mock" ApplicationDAO object in our tests. And that's what we are going to do using "Mockito".

# STEP 1 - CREATING A MOCK FOR DAO

Let's have a separate test class for our Mocking related stuff. We will call it "MockAnnotationTest". And let's annotate it with @SpringBootTest

    @SpringBootTest(classes = MvcTestingExampleApplication.class)
    public class MockAnnotationTest {..}

Now, we won't use "@Autowired" to get a dependency of DAO in this class. Because remember that we want to work with a Mock object, not the real one.

So, we use an annotation "@Mock" for that instead of "@Autowired".

    @Mock
    private ApplicationDao applicationDao;

And now, to tell Spring Boot to inject this dependency into our "ApplicationService", we will use the "@InjectMocks" annotation - 

    @Mock
    private ApplicationDao applicationDao;
    
    @InjectMocks
    private ApplicationService applicationService;

The "@Mock" annotation is used to create a mock object for a particular class, while "@InjectMocks" creates an instance of the class and injects the mocks that are created with the @Mock (or @Spy) annotations into this instance.

So here, a new instance of "applicationService" will be provided by Spring Boot and behind the scenes, it will inject the mock applicationDao in it because we have annotated it with "@Mock" annotation.

So, after we setup the data in our test class, it will look like this - 

    @SpringBootTest
    public class MockAnnotationTest {

        @Autowired
        ApplicationContext context;

        @Autowired
        CollegeStudent collegeStudent;

        @Autowired
        StudentGrades studentGrades;

        @Mock
        private ApplicationDao applicationDao;

        @InjectMocks
        private ApplicationService applicationService;

        @BeforeEach
        public void beforeEach() {
            collegeStudent.setFirstname("Eric");
            collegeStudent.setLastname("Roby");
            collegeStudent.setEmailAddress("eric.roby@gmail.com");
            collegeStudent.setStudentGrades(studentGrades);
        }

    }

# STEP 2 - SETTING UP EXPECTATION

So, let's write a test.

In our "ApplicationService", we have a method named "addGradeResultsForSingleClass" - 

    public double addGradeResultsForSingleClass(List<Double> numbers) {
        return applicationDao.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(numbers);
    }

So here, we are using the "DAO" to call its "addGradeResultsForSingleClass" method.

Since we are now using a Mock DAO object, we have to manually define what we want this mock to return if we call the "addGradeResultsForSingleClass" method on it.

And for that, we can use "when" and "thenReturn" methods that Mockito gives us.

    @Test
    @DisplayName("When and Verify")
    public void assertEqualsTestAddGrades() {
        when(applicationDao.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(studentGrades.getMathGradeResults()))
                .thenReturn(100.00);
    }

So, here, we are telling our expectation where we say that if we call the "addGradeResultsForSingleClass" method of "applicationDAO" object, then return "100.00".

# STEP 3 - EXECUTION AND ASSERTION

And now, we can just write the rest of the test as we have been doing - 

    @Test
    @DisplayName("When and Verify")
    public void assertEqualsTestAddGrades() {
        when(applicationDao.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(studentGrades.getMathGradeResults()))
                .thenReturn(100.00);

        double result = applicationService.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(collegeStudent.getStudentGrades().getMathGradeResults());

        assertEquals(100.00, result);

    }

# STEP 4 - VERIFY

We can also have an optional "verify" step that we can use to do check if certain things actually happen.

For example, we might want to know how many times a method was called or maybe we just want to verify if the method was called or not.

    @Test
    @DisplayName("When and Verify")
    public void assertEqualsTestAddGrades() {
        when(applicationDao.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(studentGrades.getMathGradeResults()))
                .thenReturn(100.00);

        double result = applicationService.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(collegeStudent.getStudentGrades().getMathGradeResults());

        assertEquals(100.00, result);

        verify(applicationDao).addGradeResultsForSingleClass(studentGrades.getMathGradeResults());

    }

Maybe we also want to verify that this method was called "x" number of times.

    verify(applicationDao, times(2)).addGradeResultsForSingleClass(studentGrades.getMathGradeResults());

In this case, this test will not pass fully because we expect this method to be called 2 times but it is actually called only once as we know.

So, the terminal will show - 

    org.mockito.exceptions.verification.TooFewActualInvocations: 
    applicationDao.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(
        null
    );
    Wanted 2 times:
    -> at com.example.component.dao.ApplicationDao.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(ApplicationDao.java:10)
    But was 1 time:
    -> at com.example.component.service.ApplicationService.addGradeResultsForSingleClass(ApplicationService.java:15)

So, the correct code will be -

    verify(applicationDao, times(1)).addGradeResultsForSingleClass(studentGrades.getMathGradeResults());

There are other methods that we can use in place of "times" such as - 

    verify(mockList, atLeastOnce()); // must be called at least once
    verify(mockList, atMost(2)); // must be called at most 2 times
    verify(mockList, atLeast(1)); // must be called at least once
    verify(mockList, never()); // must never be called