So far, we have used @Mock and @InjectMocks annotations. And these are the annotations provided to us by Mockito. They have nothing to do with Spring Boot.

But, Spring Boot provides us the @MockBean annotation. We can use the @MockBean annotation to add mock objects to the Spring Application Context.

If no bean of the same type is defined, a new one will be added. This annotation is useful in integration tests where a particular bean, like an external service, needs to be mocked.

When to use @Mock and @MockBean annotations?

    - @Mock is used when the application context is not up and you need to Mock a service/Bean.
    - @MockBean is used when the application context(in terms of testing) is up and you need to mock a service/Bean.
    - @MockBean imitates the behavior of a real Bean and injects the mocked bean after finding it from the application context.

# UNDERSTANDING THE DIFFERENCE IN CODE

So, we know that our "ApplicationDao" bean is a singleton bean because we are not explicitly specifying it as "prototype" in our main class.

What if we use our "Application Context" in our test to get a second instance of "ApplicationDao" and try to see if the two instances we have are same. Ideally, they should be same if they are fetched from the Spring Application Context.

    ApplicationDao second = context.getBean("applicationDao", ApplicationDao.class);
    assertSame(applicationDao, second);

You will see that the assertion fails. Because this "second" instance is not the same as the one that we have with @Mock annotation.

But, if we change @Mock to @MockBean and @InjectMocks to @Autowired - 

    @MockBean
    private ApplicationDao applicationDao;

    @Autowired
    private ApplicationService applicationService;

Now, the assertion will pass because now, both these "ApplicationDao" instances are being fetched from the Application Context and the Application Context returns a single instance in both the cases.

And this shows the difference between @Mock + @InjectMocks and @MockBean + @Autowired.

So, @MockBean is really imitating the behavior of a Real Spring Bean here. Whenever you need to inject mocks and inject regular beans from application context, use @MockBean.

@MockBean is ideal for integration tests where you want to test the interaction with the Spring context but mock out specific beans. 

When writing unit tests, we usually work with @Mock as we focus on a single class and it is much faster.
