So far, we have not unit tested the Spring Boot applications. We have simply unit tested plain Java applications.

So, what do we need in case of Spring Boot unit testing?

Well, we would definitely need the Spring Application Context, the support for Sprint's Dependency Injection, and also need to retrieve data from the application.properties file. We would also need the Mock object support for web, data, REST APIs, etc.

Spring provides a rich testing support so we have an annotation named "@SpringBootTest" which we can use on any class in which we are going to write our Unit Tests. The annotation works by creating the "ApplicationContext" that will be utilized in our tests.

It can do things like loading the Application Context, supporting dependency injection, accessing the data from application.properties etc.

# SPRING BOOT STARTER TEST

Ofcourse we would require a starter dependency for using Spring Boot's testing features.

This starter is named the "spring-boot-starter-test".

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-test</artifactId>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>

A good thing about this starter is that it contains the transitive dependency on JUnit 5 so we get it for free! So, we can write our JUnit tests just how we learned in the previous sections.

# INJECTING DEPENENCIES

So, let's say we have a test class like this in Spring Boot -


    @SpringBootTest
    public class DemoTest {
        @Test
        void basicTest() {...}
    }

Now, suppose, we have a service named "AccountsService" in our application and we want to inject it in our test class. How do we do that? Well, we just use the @Autowired annotation.

    @SpringBootTest
    public class DemoTest {
        @Autowired
        AccountsService accountsService;

        @Test
        void basicTest() {...}
    }
    
You might think why are we using Field injection here in our test class? Well, it's fine for your test to use field injection as the Test itself is not part of your domain; the test won't be part of your application context.

# ACCESS APPLICATION PROPERTIES

Let's say in our application.properties file, we have - 

    info.name=John
    info.app=My Super Cool App

So, if we want to read these properties in our test class, we can simply use the @Value annotation.

    @SpringBootTest
    public class DemoTest {
        
        @Value("${info.name}")
        private String name;

        @Value("${info.app}")
        private String app;

        @Test
        void basicTest() {...}
    }

# ACCESS APPLICATION CONTEXT

Well, accessing the Application Context is also simple. We just need to use the @Autowired annotation for it.

    @SpringBootTest
    public class DemoTest {
        
        @Autowired
        ApplicationContext context;

        @Test
        void basicTest() {...}
    }

# @SpringBootTest CONFIGURATION

If your test class is in the "test" folder and its package name is the same as the package for the class that you are testing then this implicitly defines a base search. It means, it allows you to leverage the default configuration and you do not have to explicitly reference the main Spring Boot Application class.

But, what if our test class in a different package than the package in which we have our class that we are testing?

In this case, we have to explicitly reference the main Spring Boot class.

    @SpringBootTest(classes = MainApplication.class)
    public class DemoTest {...}