We have some work to do in our current project.

We know that for a student, we can save the grades for different subjects but at the moment, the app does not keep track of the grades for the student because the UI is hard coded.

We would like to add support for tracking the grades so that the grades can be added for a student.

And we will apply TDD to add this new functionality.

We will update the Service and Repositories to track the grades.

So, let's start with a failing test -

    @Test
    public void createGradeService() {
        // Create the Grade
        assertTrue(studentService.createGrade(80.50, 1, "math"));
        
        // Get all the grades with a studentId
        Iterable<MathGrade> mathGrades = mathGradeRepository.findGradeByStudentId(1);
        
        // Verify there are grades
        assertTrue(mathGrades.iterator().hasNext(), "Student should have math grades");
    }

Here, we simply call a function on the service that is named "createGrade" that takes in a grade, the id of the student and the subject as input. Note that we do not have this method created right now in the service so the IDE will show an error right now.

In the next line, we find the math grade of the student with the id as 1 from the "mathGradeRepository". Now, we do not have any Repository class yet for MathGrade so it will also show error in the IDE at the moment.

And finally, we are just asserting that there are math grades for the student with id as 1 since we just added one.

So, we first add a new method in our service interface - 

    public interface StudentAndGradeService {
        public boolean createGrade(double grade, int id, String gradeType);
    }

And we implement it in the service impl class -

    @Override
    public boolean createGrade(double grade, int id, String gradeType) {
        return false;
    }

For now, let's just keep it as it is. So that at least the error goes away in the test class.

Similarly, we will create a new "MathGradeRepository" class.

    public interface MathGradeRepository extends CrudRepository<MathGrade, Integer> {
        public Iterable<MathGrade> findGradeByStudentId(int id);
    }

All it has is one method to find the math grades of the student by the id.

Finally, we just need to autowire this repository in our test class.

    @Autowired
    MathGradeRepository mathGradeRepository;

And now, if we run the test, it won't show any compilation errors. The test simply fails which is what we wanted.