So far, we have been working with an H2 databse and this is an "in-memory" database which means as your application is restarted, the database is cleared so all your data is lost. This is all fine for testing purpose but definitely not something we want to have in our actual application. We can resolve this by using something like a MySQL Database.

So, now, we will connect our application to a MySQL database.

And now its time to see the magic of application.properties file.

We will create a seaprate application.properties file for testing named "application-test.properties".

All we do is create a new file named "application-test.properties" in the test > resources folder and then copy paste the contents from the original "application.properties" file.

Now, we want to make sure our tests use this new "application-test.properties" file, not the "application.properties" file.

And for that, in a test class, we can use the @TestPropertySource annotation and pass the file path.

    @TestPropertySource("/application-test.properties")

Now, to make sure all works as expected, lets run all the tests again and make sure all of them run fine.

And now, we can use the "application.properties" for all the configuration for the actual application, such as configuring a MySQL database.

All we need to do is remove all the H2 related properties and add this - 

    spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mysqltutorial
    spring.datasource.username=test
    spring.datasource.password=test
    spring.datasource.initialization-mode=always
    spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update

Make sure to update the url, username and password according to your MySQL configuration on your system.

Finally, make sure you go to the MySQL Workbench and run the SQL script attached to current folder. This will setup the database and all the required tables with some test data.

Now, when you run your app, it will show you all the students that we already have in the MySQL database tables. And for each of them, we already have some grade data in the database.

And now, you can add new students, remove students, add grades, remove grades and so on and the data won't be reset every time you restart the app because now, we are using a MySQL database, not the H2 database. Remember that for testing, the H2 database will be used as we have explicitly specified that using the @TestPropertySource annotation.