So far, we have only seen one Assertion that JUnit provides and it was "assetEquals".

JUnit actually has a collection of Assertions in the class "org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions".

You can see all of them here - https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/api/org.junit.jupiter.api/org/junit/jupiter/api/Assertions.html

Here are some of them - 

    assertEquals => Asserts that the values are equal
    assertNotEquals => Asserts that the values are not equal
    assertNull => Asserts that the value is null
    assertNotNull => Asserts that the value is not null
    assertArrayEquals => Asserts that two arrays are equal
    assertSame => Asserts that two objects are the same
    assertNotSame => Asserts that the two objects are not the same
    assertTrue => Asserts that condition is true
    assertFalse => Asserts that condition is false
    assertIterableEquals => Asserts that both the object iterables are deeply equal
    assertThrows => Asserts that an executable throws an exception of an expected type
    assertTimeoutPreemptively => Assert that an executable completes before given timeout is exceeded

So, for example, we want to write a test case that test that the addition of 2 and 4 must not be "5".

So, we will write - 

    @Test
    public void testAddNotEquals() {

        // SETUP
        DemoUtils demoUtils = new DemoUtils();

        // EXECUTE
        int actual = demoUtils.add(2,4);

        // ASSERT
        Assertions.assertNotEquals(8, actual, "2 + 4 must not be 8");
    }

# STATIC IMPORT

Static import is a shortcut for referencing the "static" methods and fields in a class.

So far, this is how we have been using the Assertions - 

    Assertions.assertNotEquals(8, actual, "2 + 4 must not be 8");

We can clean things up a bit and just use - 

    assertNotEquals(8, actual, "2 + 4 must not be 8");

But, for this, we have to use "import static" and import the required assertions like so -

    import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.assertEquals;
    import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.assertNotEquals;

We can also use "wildcard" for the static import so that all the "Assertions" are imported - 

    import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;

In this way, we do not have to worry about importing other assert methods as we use them in our Testing class.

# EXAMPLES

## NULL

Let's try to write a test for another method in our DemoUtils class named "checkNull" which accepts an object as input and checks whether the object is null or not. If the object is not null, it will return the object. Otherwise, it returns null.

        public Object checkNull(Object obj) {
            if (obj != null) {
                return obj;
            }
            return null;
        }

So, to test this, again, we use the same three steps - 

    SETUP
    EXECUTE
    ASSERT

    @Test
    public void testCheckNull() {

        // SETUP
        DemoUtils demoUtils = new DemoUtils();

        // EXECUTE
        Object obj1 = null;
        Object obj2 = "Hello World";

        Object actual1 = demoUtils.checkNull(obj1);
        Object actual2 = demoUtils.checkNull(obj2);

        // ASSERT
        assertNull(obj1, "Object 1 must be null");
        assertNotNull(obj2, "Object 2 must not be null");
    }

## ARRAYS

Let's try to work with Arrays now. We have an assertion named "assertArrayEquals" for arrays.

Suppose, we have a method named "getFirstThreeLettersOfAlphabet()" in our DemoUtils class that returns an array with three letters in it.

So, to test it we can write a test case as - 

    @Test
    @DisplayName("Array Equals test for getFirstThreeLettersOfAlphabet()")
    public void testGetFirstThreeLettersOfAlphabetEquals() {

        System.out.println("Running test: testGetFirstThreeLettersOfAlphabetEquals");
        
        String[] stringArray = {"A", "B", "C"};
        
        // ASSERT
        assertArrayEquals(stringArray, demoUtils.getFirstThreeLettersOfAlphabet(), "Arrays should be the same");
        
    }

## ITERABLES

What about iterables such as ArrayList, LinkedList, HashSet, TreeSet and any other class that implements the "java.lang.Iterable" interface?

For that, we have the "assertIterableEquals" Assertion method.

In our DemoUtils class, we have a method named "getAcademyInList()" which returns a "List". So, what if we want to make comparisons against this list?

So, we can write a test case as -

    @Test
    @DisplayName("List Equals test for getAcademyInList()")
    public void testGetAcademyInListEquals() {

        System.out.println("Running test: testGetAcademyInListEquals");

        List<String> list = List.of("hello", "world", "123");

        // ASSERT
        assertIterableEquals(list, demoUtils.getAcademyInList(), "Arrays should be the same");
    }

## EXCEPTIONS

We can make use of an assertion named "assertThrows()" to assert that an executable throws an exception of an expected type.

Similarly, we can sue "assertDoesNotThrow" to assert that an executable does not throw any exception.

For example, in our DemoUtils, we have a method -

    public String throwException(int a) throws Exception {
        if (a < 0) {
            throw new Exception("Value should be greater than or equal to 0");
        }
        return "Value is greater than or equal to 0";
    }

We want to write tests for this. If we pass a negative number, it should throw an exception. If we pass 0 or a positive number, it should not throw an exception.

So, we can write -

    @Test
    @DisplayName("Test Exception for throwException()")
    public void testThrowException() {

        System.out.println("Running test: testThrowException");

        // ASSERT
        assertThrows(Exception.class, () -> demoUtils.throwException(-1), "Should throw exception!");
        assertDoesNotThrow(() -> demoUtils.throwException(0), "Should not throw exception!");
    }

Note that we pass a lambda expression to these two assertion methods.

## TIMEOUTS

We have an assertion method named "assertTimeoutPreemptively" which we can use to assert that an executable completed before the timeout was exceeded.

We have the following method in our DemoUtils class -

    public void checkTimeout() throws InterruptedException {
        System.out.println("I am going to sleep");
        Thread.sleep(2000);
        System.out.println("Sleeping over");
    }

We want to test that this method does not oversleep. It should sleep only for 2 seconds.

So, we can write - 

    @Test
    @DisplayName("Test Timeout for checkTimeout()")
    public void testCheckTimeout() {

        System.out.println("Running test: testCheckTimeout");

        // ASSERT
        assertTimeoutPreemptively(Duration.ofSeconds(3), () -> demoUtils.checkTimeout(), "Method should execute in 3 seconds!");
    }